00:00:02
 So we are on the book of revelation and last week we just about completed the first chapter. Just to do a quick review in the first chapter we have a v uh we have the background information. John was on the aisle of Patmas and he had a vision. In the vision, he was taken forward to the day of the Lord and he saw events that would take place on that day of the Lord. He had a vision of Jesus and um a very detailed description where the last thing that Jesus the last thing that Jesus said was that

00:00:44
 he was to write the things that he saw and to put them in a book and send them to the seven churches. Now, let me quickly um let me bring up our slides because what we want to do is to look at just remind ourselves. So, in in his vision, John saw a description of Jesus. He saw an image of Jesus, a vision of Jesus that maybe looked a little bit like this. with a sharp sword coming out of his mouth with the seven stars in his right hand, a golden girdle around his waist, feet like they burn in a furnace, eyes like a

00:01:31
 flame of fire, the hair of his head like the pure wool, and he was walking in the midst of seven candlesticks. Now, John was told specifically that the seven stars represent the seven angels or the seven messengers of the churches and that the seven candlesticks or the seven lampstands represented the seven churches. Now, I I I admit that there's one part of Revelation that I have I' I've I've been a little sketchy in my approach to it, and it is the seven churches. I mean, I've I've

00:02:23
 studied it along with Revelation for many years, but the thing is that it just seems a little bit out of sync with the rest of the book. I know that the message of the book is the judgment of the kingdoms that I am absolutely certain about and I know that the narrative beginning in in Revelation chapter 4. So these two chapters dealing with the seven churches, chapters 2 and chapter 3, they have created a bit of a conundrum in my mind because I'm thinking, you know, where do these seven churches

00:03:03
 fit into the picture of the judgment? Are they just vague messages sent out to the churches? And um this evening I hope I can answer those questions a little better. So last week we we reminded ourselves that these seven churches were actually literal churches um in what is now modern day Turkey. In in Bible times it was referred to as Asia. that part was Asia and um I think they call it Asia Minor but um and we also saw that these these seven churches were were in the same order. If you went in a

00:03:58
 semicircle, if you follow the the the actual path of these churches, it would take you in a semicircle like this and they would actually be in the same order in which Jesus sent the messages in revelation. So they were one behind the other. But um almost well most people most Christians agree that these seven churches represented not the seven literal churches primarily. I'm sure that John sent the message to these seven literal churches because they were local congregations back there in Bible times. But

00:04:43
 everybody agrees or almost everybody agrees that these seven churches represented something bigger. All of us understand the principle of type and antitype. So these seven churches were actually you might call them types. They were they were illustrative of the bigger Christian church. And um these messages were applicable to the Christian church especially down at the end of time. But Jesus sent the messages to these several literal churches. And um it's if you look at the the the pattern of the

00:05:22
 book of revelation, it's understandable because in Revelation for example when God talks about Babylon, he's really talking about some greater system. There actually was a Babylon in Bible times. And even in the time when John wrote the book of Revelation, there was a Babylon. But when God talked about Babylon, he was not speaking about that local Babylon. He was talking about something much bigger and greater encompassing the whole world. It's the same thing with these seven churches. He talks about

00:05:56
 Ephesus. It's not primarily focused on that little Ephesus that was down there in Asia [clears throat] Minor and all the different churches for example. All of them have to do with something bigger and that is the pattern of revelation. All right. So first thing I want to look at is the meaning of the names. Now there were seven of them and um you can actually see in revelation chapter one where the names are given because where does he say it right in verse 11 Jesus says what you see write in a book and send it

00:06:46
 onto the seven churches which are in Asia and he tells you the names under Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamus, Tatyra, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Leodysia. So, because we know that everything in Revelation has meaning, the first thing we want to do is look at the meanings of these names and they they are significant. So the first name Ephesus, the literal the literal meaning of the word Ephesus is desirable and it is it is typical of the of what we know about this church because Ephesus was Ephesus was described by Jesus as having

00:07:44
 it was known for hard work and um most of the things that Jesus has to say about this church are commendable. A lot of good said about it. So the name desirable is um is typical of the kind of church that Ephesus was described as being. The next church was what? Smyrna. And Smyrna comes from the name Myrr. And um most of us will know that myrrh was a bitter a bitter herb that had a a a smell. The smell of myrrh was I think it was a sweet smell, but the herb itself was bitter. And um we will read the description. We will

00:08:38
 come to the descriptions one at a time, but it Smyrna was a church of persecuted believers and um they were described as experiencing a lot of suffering and there was a threat of death in in the message that was sent there was there was the suggestion that death would be a prominent part of their experience. The next church was Pergamus. And Pergamos it can have two meanings. It can mean married or it can mean a citadel. Now people sometimes interpret it as meaning married to the world. And that wouldn't be too much too off

00:09:27
 because Pergamos was really probably the first church that began to have heavy criticism from Jesus. And um the commentary most people comment most most commentators suggest it represents a church that compromised with the world. And as I said we'll come to the message itself and we look at these things in a bit more detail. The next church was Theotyra. And um the word Theotyra means continual sacrifice or a smell of affliction. And um this church was noted when you read what it says about this church, it

00:10:12
 was noted for tolerating false teaching. Now there's something about these messages that I will um point out as we go through them. But the thing is as you look at these messages it's like you're talking to two different sets of people because Jesus will say you have there that woman who is teaching my servants that woman Jezebel. So Theotyra is not the woman Jezebel, but Theotyra is living in the time of the woman Jezebel and under the influence of the woman Jezebel. So it's two, it's like the

00:10:51
 message is addressing two different situations, the woman Jezebel and the church of Thotyra. And you'll find that many of the messages are like that. They're focused on two things. And I want to point out that one thing is referring to God's people. The other thing is referring to something that is present that is not God's people, but it it appears to be God's people. And I'll say some more about that as we proceed. Then after Theotyra, you had Sardis. And um the word Sardis means a remnant

00:11:28
 or the ones who escape. Sardis is described as a church that was dead, although it has a name for being alive. All of these names are very, very appropriate when you begin to get down into the churches and understanding what they mean. Like I said, we'll come to that. Um, there are two churches left. You have Ephesus, Smyrna, Perma, Sardis. The next one is Philadelphia. And the word Philadelphia means brotherly love. Now this morning when we were we were listening to Daniel talking about the

00:12:07
 seal of God and the mark of the beast. This was a a a a nice a nice thing to look at the character of Philadelphia because Philadelphia is is is identified as being outstanding. It says they have a little strength but they are faithful and they endure and they have a lot of zeal for the the work. But the name itself means brotherly love. And when we look at the idea that the seal of God has to do with the love of God, this is a very strong strong evidence that we could look at the name itself of Philadelphia. And certainly as

00:12:54
 we we we are continuing with our studies and we come to Philadelphia, I'm going to highlight that a little bit more. And then the last of the churches is of course Leodicia. And leisia means the judging of the people. Well, they say it could also mean the custom of the people, but I think the judging of the people is a very significant title. And of course, it is described as being lukewarm, self-sufficient, full of itself, self-righteous. And um Leodysia has one of the worst one of the worst indictments against it

00:13:36
 by Jesus. As a matter of fact, when you look at all the churches, Leodia, Leodia is the only one that really you could say there's no encouragement or any hope that Jesus gives to this church. Now, what do these seven churches represent? What do they represent? Um, that is something that I have I've bothered with that question for a while. This evening, I'm going to suggest something. I'm going to suggest some meanings. But last week, I highlighted something that I'm going to

00:14:22
 repeat, which is that I I've come to the conclusion that I mean there are two approaches that people take. I know that most of them say that these seven churches they represent seven stages in the history of the Christian church. So they will say that Ephesus represented from the time of the apostles until about AD 100. Then they will say that Smyrna was about AD 100 to about 8313. a time of great persecution. And then they will say Pergamus was from about 300 to about 538. And then they will say Theotyra was from

00:15:05
 about 538 until about 175 or 1798 some people will say. And they will say Sardis was from 1715. So this was from 1715 until 17 until 1844 and then they will say 18 um Philadelphia was like from 1840 40 44 until sometime about in the 1860s and then Leodia was from in the 1860s until today. That's how they will will put it. But um I'm going to reorganize it a little bit and I'm going to say each of these seven churches it had a starting point but none of them has an ending point. So where they would say that Ephesus

00:15:57
 started in AD31 when Jesus died or with the beginning of the apostolic church and they would say it came to an end in AD 100. I'm saying no. Ephesus never ended. And then Smyrna began and it never ended. And then Pergamus began and it never ended. And Theotyra began and it never ended. And so you come to the end of time and all [snorts] seven of these churches are still in existence. This is what I want to demonstrate. Now if you if you look at if you look at the churches as organizations then of course some of them passed away

00:16:48
 right for example the apostolic church if you look at it as an organization where you had 12 apostles in charge of it and I don't know if they gave themselves a name I don't know that they had a name they were probably just called Christians But the organizational structure it doesn't exist anymore. That that that that phase of the church it did pass and the church went through changes the organized church. But I don't think the Bible is looking I don't think revelation especially is looking at

00:17:21
 things like this. Revelation is looking at spiritual entities, spiritual things. So you can know that for example Israel is not the organization called Israel. It's not the Jews. It's not the Hebrews. Israel is the spiritual company that is made up of people who have the spirit of Christ in them. They're not in Jamaica or in Croatia or in the United States or India or China. They are everywhere. Wherever the spirit of God is, that is where Israel is. They are identified by something spiritual. So it's not a it's

00:18:03
 not a church or a congregation the way we understand congregations. It's something bigger and greater. It's a spiritual congregation that you recognize by their spiritual characteristics, not by their physical attributes. You see what I'm saying? If you're looking for physical Israel, you better go down to Palestine and go down to there there in the Middle East. are you can say there are Jews everywhere but you're going to be looking for the kind of blood the kind of skin tone and the kind

00:18:30
 of face and nose and so forth you're looking for physical things but true Israel is spiritual the identifying mark is invisible and it is so with most of the things in revelation so the seven churches we are not to go to Asia to look for them neither are we to go to a certain location in time. We are looking at spiritual conditions and these conditions started at a certain point in time but they all continue to the end of time. Now what we're looking for then what I what what what I was looking for

00:19:14
 I asked myself question >> uh is that brother Patrick? >> Yeah. So he's saying the churches are like the beast power just using a different head every single time. >> Um I suppose we could say there is that similarity. It's one church but with seven different incarnations. We could say I there's a similarity to brother Patrick. Yes, you could you could you could look at it that way. I mean of course we want everybody to understand that we are saying the the beast power of course the

00:19:52
 heads are negative but the church these different states of the church are are mostly positive. So it's different in that way. But yes, the comparison you're making is an interesting one that I didn't think about, but you could say so. Just like how the the beasts had heads and they all came into existence at different times. The difference is that they don't all exist at the end of time. The seven heads of the beast, they do not all exist. But I'm saying that the seven states of the church, they all exist.

00:20:23
 They're at the end of time. And um why am I emphasizing this? Well, the reason is because Revelation is a is an end time book. If God gives messages to the seven churches and the book of Revelation is to be sent to the seven churches, it is because the book of Revelation is important to the seven churches. If if one of the churches was eliminated AD 100, say for example, Ephesus started in AD31, continue to AD 100. What is the point of sending the book of revelation? It means nothing to the book of the

00:21:03
 church of Ephesus then because Ephesus does not exist at the time when revelation is fulfilled. You see what I'm saying? So if God says if Jesus says send these letters to the seven churches even though you have the literal seven churches but the the point is he's saying that these these messages are important to the seven churches the true seven churches the bigger seven churches these messages have importance to the to the church in its seven stages. How can that be if some stages are already gone?

00:21:37
 So my understanding then is that all seven stages of the church will exist at the time when revelation is fulfilled or during what is called the day of the lord. All seven stages are going to be there. I hope that is understandable. If there's any any ambiguity and it's difficult to to to get what I'm saying then by all means you can interrupt me. But I'm going to repeat it. So all of them had a different starting point, but they all have the same ending point. They're all existing together in our

00:22:16
 day, and they will continue onto the day of the Lord, which is the fulfillment of the book of Revelation. So the question is, so I I started looking around trying to find seven different seven different states of the Christian church. Now I can find 32,000 denominations. I think maybe about 40,000 by now. I don't know. I think if you check Wikipedia or you check on the internet, it will tell you there are over 30,000 different denominations. So we are not talking about the denominations. But what we are looking at is

00:23:02
 seven great conditions into which you can divide the Christian church. So I was thinking about this and praying about this and I came upon seven. I came upon seven actually. So I'm going to try to share those. But um I want to say again that when we are looking at prophecy we are we are prone to be misguided because we are not perfect and our understanding or our ears are not always perfect to hear exactly what the Lord is saying. But these seven make sense to me. All right. So, let me go back to my screen and I'm going to look

00:23:43
 at these what I consider the seven stages of the Christian church. So, first condition I want to point out. All right, this is something that we said already. These conditions overlap. They all exist together. seven conditions in the Christian church today, but they relate to specific situations and all of these situations had a specific beginning and from that point they continue right down to the end. So let me highlight some things here because I want to make sure we these conditions overlap.

00:24:25
 Meaning that all of these seven stages you might have for example somebody who is in Ephesus and also in Thotyra for example that's what I mean when I say these conditions overlap. You might have somebody who's whose spiritual condition means that he's a part of Smyrna and he's also a part of Philadelphia for example that might happen but but but that is not the the the the the main way of identifying them. They relate to specific situations. You can look at a certain situation and say this is the

00:25:05
 Ephesus situation and it is it is it is a it is one major situation in the world today. You can look at this the Smyrna situation and you can say it is one major situation in the world. You can look at all of those seven churches and you can identify seven major aspects of the Christian church. As you look at each one of them, all of them had a specific beginning. You can point to a time when they actually started and you can see that from that time they continued until today. All right, those are the things we are

00:25:48
 looking for. So, I'm going to put my suggestions forward and um if you have a disagreement with what I'm going to share, then by all means state your disagreement. But I'm going to ask you to disagree with good reason. And if you don't have good reason to disagree, then hold your peace. All right? I am not infallible. So I I I if I am wrong and you have good reason, I want to see. But if not, then hold your peace. All right? So here is what I see as Ephesus. First of all, Ephesus was the beginning of the

00:26:24
 Christian church. It began with the first apostles and the early church. And um the hallmark of Ephesus as far as I can see was that it represented Christians who were living under oppressive oppressive rival religions. What do I mean by this? Well, in the apostolic church, what was the environment they lived under? They lived under primarily persecution from the Jews. The Jews was a rival. It was it was it was Judaism but there was some element of it also from you know the worshippers of Diana the Greeks and

00:27:10
 and and the the the Roman religion mythism to some extent but in the time of the apostles remember the main persecution was from religion remember the the the people that gave the early church the hardest time was the Jews They they stoned Steven to death. They put Peter Peter in prison. Even when James was beheaded, the church, the the the religious group, the Jews were behind it. When when the the Christians had to flee from Jerusalem, it was because after the death of Steven, there was a great persecution and everybody

00:27:49
 had to flee. The greatest thorn in the side of the Apostle Paul was the Jews. And sometimes when the Romans did get involved, it was because the Jews instigated them against the Christians. So this was the church of Ephesus, the first church where God says, we're going to look at what he says about Ephesus. But let me just look at the at what I believe to be the identity of these churches first of all, then we'll go to them individually. So I think Ephesus represents Christians who live

00:28:22
 under oppressive rival religions. Now do we have those situations in the world today? From the time of the apostles, it has always been there. What am I talking about? Well, what about Christians who live under extreme Islam? What about Christians who live under extreme Hinduism? There are places in in India. There are places in the Middle East under in Islamic countries where Christians have to live in great under severe persecution. Their ability to preach the message is just like in the time of the apostles.

00:29:02
 They can be killed ju just for just for for telling somebody about Christ. You can be killed in some countries. Now, here's something I will tell you about Christianity in these countries. There's something that um we might have we might have recognized, but I'm going to reinforce it. When you live in a country where there is persecution of Christians, strong persecution by other religions. Whether you are a Baptist or an Adventist or a Methodist or a Presbyterian or even a Catholic is not

00:29:43
 very significant. If you if you read the experience of Christians who live under those conditions, all Christians tend to link together and they tend to they tend to help one another and to be they don't have time to fight among one another because the oppression of the other religion religious forces are so strong. They don't have time to fight among one another. They they tend to more bond together for their own safety. They work together, cooperate together. And brother Tony, I think you're

00:30:17
 unmuted. So this condition from the days of the apostolic church, it has never changed. You somewhere in the world, you have always had Christians who are living under this kind of oppression. And I know that sometimes I ask myself the question, why is it that some Christians are persecuted so badly? And you know, those of us who live in the western world, we talk about one day persecution is coming. But somebody will say, "No, no, right now Christians are being severely persecuted in other parts of

00:30:54
 the world for their religious faith. There are other religious groups that are persecuting Christians." Um sometimes I don't know some of the news you get is is is you can't trust it. But if we are to believe everything in Nigeria for example in some places hundreds of Christians are sometimes killed by Islamic groups and not just in Nigeria it happens some places in India where um it's it's very dangerous to be a Christian and try to share your faith. So the same conditions that existed in

00:31:30
 apostolic times the same kind of persecution it exists. There is a a part of the church in the world today which is experiences experiencing the same kind of persecution the same Ephesus conditions even though it's not the entire church it's that aspect of the church and usually Christians under those conditions tend to be far more committed and far more in love with the Lord than the other Christians who live in places where you know nothing like that is happening. So what I'm saying is that

00:32:07
 the Ephesus condition is speaking of the the the the state of the church who lives under those Christians or the part of the church that lives under oppressive. I'm emphasizing the word oppressive because if you're living with other religions and they're not making any trouble at all, they're allowing you to survive and do your own business. It doesn't apply. But we are talking about those who live in a place where just to be a Christian the other religious the other the dominant religious group

00:32:40
 will will will cause severe persecution. This is Ephesus and it exists in the world today just the same. Number two smrna and um of course Ephesus means desirable. Smyrna, it refers to Christians in a similar condition. And I'm suggesting that it refers to Christians who live a similar situation, but this time the the enemy is different. It's a godless persecuting state. When I say state, I mean political system. So in the case of Ephesus it's it's the religion that is persecuting.

00:33:26
 In the case of Smyrna it's the state that is persecuting. Now how do I come to this conclusion? Well, first of all, if you look at the second stage of the Christian church after the time of the apostles for the next 300 years, the church was severely persecuted by the Roman government. Remember up to about AD 100, the great persecuting power was the Jews. They were the they were the persecutors of Christians. But round about AD 100 the the the real enemy became the Roman government. And you know that that was

00:34:10
 the time when God said to the church of Smyrna, you will suffer tribulation for 10 days. And it talks about death. That message is is is references to death. And um that was a time when the emperor Nero would he would dip Christians in tar and use them to light his garden at night. He he he got the people to hate Christians that they were they were they were slaughtered by the hundreds. So when did this stop? And again I would say that this never stopped. There was always from that time going forward always somewhere in the

00:34:56
 world Christians who are being persecuted by the state. Right now today you can look at China you can look at North Korea during the the the communist revolution in Russia. You had I don't know how many how many thousands of Christians who were killed during the time of the French Revolution. They slaughtered Christians. Some of them were fake Christians. Yes. But they turned against Christianity. And yes, somebody says Iran and and the you know Iran is a combination of religious and state persecution. So I'm making a

00:35:33
 distinction between Ephesus which refers to the church in a state where they they're oppressed by rival religions and Smyrna which refers to the church in a state where it is under persecution by a godless government or godless state. You might refer to them as um atheists sometimes but um it's where the state turns against Christians. Now these are two conditions that exist in the world today and they have always existed from the beginning. Well, you had first of all the religious persecution as I pointed out and then

00:36:15
 about 80 100 you had the state persecution beginning with fierce intensity and it continued for about the better part of 300 years. All right. The next part of the church, let me complete my sentence. It continued for the better part of 300 years and it has never stopped. Somewhere in the world always from that time forward. You have always had God's people being persecuted by governments and by states always somewhere. So Smyrna never stopped once it started. The third one is Pergamos. Now, this is one that I

00:37:04
 I couldn't quite figure out. I didn't know this, but I'm going to say something to you that I just found out while I was looking at this. Did you know that um there are three groups in Christianity? I didn't know. I I I I I kind of didn't know my history so well. the people who live in Europe, they will have a better idea than me. But I thought there was only Catholics and Protestants. And I'm I'm willing to I'm willing to conclude that most of you are probably in my in my shoes. I

00:37:46
 thought there were only Catholics and Protestants in Christianity. But if you go to Wikipedia or you go to um one of these AI search things and ask how many different groups are there in Christianity, how many major groups, you'll find that there are three. So So I have it on the screen. I should have asked you before I put it on the screen, but I didn't realize that the Orthodox Church, that the Orthodox Church is another branch of Christianity, different from Catholicism and different from Protestantism.

00:38:22
 I didn't realize it. When I go to Europe, they're always talking about the Orthodox Church. When I ask when I go to especially Eastern Europe, Croatia, Serbia, Romania, those places, and um I ask what is the main religion? They will say the Orthodox Church. And in my mind, I'm thinking, okay, it's just another variation of um Catholicism or it's just another variation of Protestantism. But then I did some more careful study this week and I discovered that the the the Orthodox Church is actually

00:38:54
 a split from the Roman Catholic Church which took place a thousand years ago. Now we know about the split of Protestantism but most of us didn't really think much about the split of the Orthodox church because those who live in Europe they live much they are much more closely connected to it. In Russia for example almost all religion is the Orthodox church. And if you go to like I said the Eastern European countries, if you ask what is the chief religion here, you're not going to hear Catholicism or

00:39:33
 Protestantism. Most of the time it will be the Orthodox Church. So they they broke away from the Catholic Church and became a completely separate entity. The main difference is that they they don't acknowledge the pope as being the head of the church. They have another man that they call the patriarch and he's the head of the Orthodox church. But um they also they also had a a part of the reason why they split as well was because the Catholic Church says that at the council of Nika they said that the Holy Ghost proceeds

00:40:18
 from the father. And then the Catholic church says after a while the Catholic church changed and they said the holy ghost proceeds from the father and the son. And this Orthodox church they said no no no that is breaking the tradition that what that what we got from Na the Holy Ghost comes only from the father. And so because of this they began to have a difference of opinion and they began to split. And then finally the pope excommunicated the head of of the Eastern church the patriarch. And in return the patriarch

00:40:59
 excommunicated the pope. Both of them were exercising authority over one another. And because of that there was this great split. I think they call it the great schism. There was this great split and they split into two different churches. So there are two churches who are similar in the things that they believe. They have smaller differences but the the the Orthodox church does not acknowledge the headship of the pope and the pope of course they they count that church as as heresy but it's a big

00:41:33
 body of Christians even though in the in in our part of the world we don't know much about them but there are over 300 million in the Orthodox church which is as many people as live in the United States so it's a very very huge body of people. Brother Tony, go ahead. >> So, the Orthodox Church, is it mainly combined of Jews? And do they adhere to the old law precepts? >> No. No. They're just like like like Catholics. There are people who are made up of Europeans mostly because it's

00:42:16
 mostly in Europe. But there are Romanians. There are Croatians, Serbians, Russians, Ukrainians, there are people from that side of the world who just like how you have a lot of people belonging to the Catholic Church from different countries. Maybe one or two Jews in the lot to just like you have Jews in Christianity, but primarily it's a religion. It's not based upon race or nation. It's based upon regarding this church as a church of God and um regarding this man as a head of the church. And just before brother

00:42:47
 Cliff speaks, interestingly, if you look at the message to Pergamus, which we will, you will find where it says that the that Antipas, my servant was killed. Now, the word Antipas, if you look at the root of the word, it means antipope. Anti-pope. So it the idea that the Orthodox church broke away from the Catholic Church because they they rejected the pope, the authority of the pope. There's a hint of it there in the message to sm to to Pergamus, but we look at that more closely as we proceed. Go ahead, brother

00:43:27
 Cliff. >> I was just going to let you know that um I had an aunt that passed in what is it? Um I think it was in um August or or November. Anyway, she was an EP Episcopalian. She lived in New New Orleans. I didn't know that it was a church other than a Catholic church because at the funeral they did all the Catholic things, you know, the sprinkling of sprinkling of of essence onto the body, onto the congregation, uh the holy, you know, the holy water and, you know, doing all the rituals as a

00:44:03
 Catholic. And then I spoke to the officiating um minister I mean the officiating lady afterwards and you know in the conversation mentioned the pope and she said oh we don't have a pope you know I said you don't have a pope you're Catholic character she said um u we follow their practices but we have our own own guy I think it was the same person you mentioned so yeah they're they're very prevalent and we as adventists we don't really know about the I mean this this existence

00:44:33
 >> Mhm. M all right. Um the the the thing is I think Episcopalian is is more a a version of the Anglican Church. It's the American branch of the Anglican Church, I think. But you're right that they also are very closely imitators of the of the Catholic way of worship. Um >> but it's a little different because the head of their church is supposed to be the queen. I'm not sure if the American branch holds to the same um same philosophy, but I know that in England the head is the the or the king, whoever

00:45:05
 it is, the king or the queen, but um >> Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. >> Yes. But the Orthodox Church is very similar. Now, the Orthodox Church, as I as I pointed out, has a congregation of 300 million and it it is recognized historically that there are these three branches of Christianity. So when you read the message to the programmers which we will come to we will see that many of the statements that are made really fit well with this orthodox church. Um then the fourth the fourth one is Theotyra

00:45:48
 and um because of the message I will say that the Tyra represents Christians who are living under Roman Catholicism whether they are members of the church or they live under the strong influence of the church but Theotyra is unmistakably Christians under this influence or under this environment. It's it's a church to which Jesus says you you suffer that woman named Jezebel to seduce my servants. As I said there are two there are two people being addressed. There is a church itself which is made up of the

00:46:26
 Christians who live under the system and then the system now is referred to as that woman Jezebel. Two different facets. So even though you might be under the influence or in the environment of Catholicism, you may still be a true Christian, but you are you are allowing that woman Jezebel to prosper and to survive according to how the message is written. And we will we will discuss it more carefully when we come to it. Then after Theotyra, the fifth church is Sardis. And Sardis unmistakably as far as I'm concerned

00:47:04
 represents Christians who are living under Protestantism. And these three groups cover almost the entire spectrum of Christianity. There is the Orthodox Church with 300 million. There is the Catholic Church with 1.3 billion. And there's a Protestant church which is made up of all these different denominations which appro with approximately 1 billion. Roman Catholicism is the biggest group but you have the Orthodox Church and Protestantism also included. Now as I keep repeating we are going to look at these messages

00:47:54
 one by one and one of what we will see is that they are all they all apply. You can look at them and see how they apply to each of these institutions. And what I want to point out to you is that okay we say that the first one Ephesus started at the time of the death of Jesus continues to the end. Smyrna Christians under a persecuting state that condition started when the Romans started their persecution of Christians about AD 100 maybe a little before but it really exploded around about AD 100 and it has

00:48:31
 continued until today. Christians under the Orthodox Church. It started sometime after the council of Nika before the year 1000. It really went into a clear split between demon Catholicism about AD 1000 and that has continued until today. Roman Catholic Church began the same time as the Orthodox Church, split from them about a thousand years ago and has continued until today and they're about 1.3 billion. Protestantism Protestantism began to it it was a process that took place over time from

00:49:13
 the time that they they burned John Hus and Jerome Martin Luther's thesis 1517 that marked a huge turning point in the reformation. and the growth of Protestantism. So I would say about 1517 is where you had the beginning of the Protestant movement and that has continued until today. It has grown to about 1 billion people. It includes um Presbyterians, Methodists, Baptist, um Adventists, Moravians, all of them. And um it continues to be about 1 billion today, continues until the end. And then

00:49:56
 the sixth congregation is Philadelphia. And I'm going to give this a label. For the first time in my life, I'm giving it this label, but it is what I have believed. I believe the Philadelphia church is made up of Christians who live under the movement of the little book. Why am I referring to it this way? Because I think that is what the what revelation is about. It's about a people who break into God's will for the time because of their eating of the little book, because of their understanding of

00:50:30
 the little book. Their experience becomes the experience of brotherly love. And all the things that are said of Philadelphia become their experience because of the little book. Now, here's the part where I'm a little cautious. I am thinking up to this point. I'm still thinking I'm still thinking that this little little book movement began around about the time of the beginning of the Adventist movement. All right. I think the little book movement began when there was this intense study

00:51:10
 of Daniel and Revelation. And regardless of the fact that there were some wrong ideas, I still think that the movement was a movement of God. And it started with Christians who were sincere and committed and loving and who were absolutely focused on the coming of Jesus. These Christians, this movement has continued until today. And I believe that those of us in this congregation in this fellowship this evening are a part of the movement. Now this is not to confuse us with the offshoot that came out of the movement.

00:51:52
 Leodicia, who is Leodysia? Leicia is Christians who are under the little book movement. They're under the little book movement apostasy. That's what Leodysia is. People who have been involved with the movement of the little book, but they have gone into apostasy. In other words, they have moved away from that first brotherly love. They have moved away from the elements of Philadelphia. They have organized themselves into a group that is not building on what Philadelphia was given. They're not building on the

00:52:32
 truths of the Little Book Movement. And they actually become another movement at the end of time which coexists with the little book movement and they are really a movement in apost apostasy. They are self-righteous. They claim to have the truth. They think they are rich and increase with goods but they have turned away from the path of truth. Now who are these? I will leave I will leave us to to make our own conclusion. But this is what I this is what came to my mind as I was looking at this and trying to find these

00:53:09
 seven states. Now five of these conditions you can almost identify them like denominations. Number three you can say this belongs to the Orthodox church. Number five. Number four, unmistakably under Roman Catholicism. Number five, you can't miss number five. Number six, unmistakable. Number seven, very convincing. Somebody might present some arguments against it, but it's very convincing. But there are two of them. The first two which you cannot give a name to them. They are not denominations,

00:53:51
 but they are real conditions that exist in the world. And the thing about these two move these two number one and number two this is what I say about number one and number two when Christians are living under that condition when Christians are living under this these conditions denominations become irrelevant. I don't know if any of you have ever read um Richard Wormbbrand's book um tortured for Christ. Okay. Richard Wormbbrand was a Romanian Christian who lived under the time of communism

00:54:32
 and um he was put in prison for his faith and tortured. A lot of Christians were in prison during that time. And Richard Wormbbrand said something interesting. He said that in jail when they were in prison in Romania, there were no Catholics, there were no Adventists, there were no Jehovah's Witnesses, there were no Baptists, everybody was Christian because the the the the suffering that they were all going through together, broke down the walls and just made them brothers in Christ. And that is why I am

00:55:04
 making I am making these two conditions different from the other conditions. Like I said, there is overlapping because you can be in the Orthodox church and you can still be persecuted by the state. So that's why I said there's some kind of overlapping. But you have these five very clear conditions from number three to number seven. And then you have number one and number two which is like some general conditions but they are very real and they exist in the world. And I think that these seven conditions

00:55:37
 will continue until the very end of time until Jesus comes again. You will have other religions persecuting Christians. And so you'll have those Christians who are you could say they are non-denominational because of their the condition they live in. And then you have those Christians who live under persecuting states like China and and North Korea and some Islamic countries where again their their denomination hardly matters because they are common in that they are suffering together. And these are two

00:56:08
 classes that continue until right down to the very end of time. And then you have those who are in denominational groups. Orthodox, Catholicism, Protestantism, the little book movement and then the the movement that is in apostasy. And they are all they are all distinct groups that you can identify and they continue until we come down to the last moments of time. When everything comes to the crisis then you have you have you have maybe different organiz organ different ways that they are organized based on how the crisis

00:56:38
 develops. But this is what I see right now as my my best explanation of these seven churches. But I see brother Ian has his hand up. So, Brother Ian, go ahead. >> Yeah. Uh, I don't know if what you said last was touching on the the answer that I'm looking for the question I'm about to ask, but how do you when you read the characteristics of the church Philadelphia and you compare it to the 144,000 there are there there's uh there's some amount of parallelism or what do we say

00:57:24
 overlapping. >> Yeah. So would how how would the other churches fit into the 144,000 scenario seeing that it's that is going to be the group of people who are going to be on the earth in the last days. >> All right. Um the the the the answers to some of those questions will will have to wait until we get into the details of the churches because we would have to go through them individually here now to clarify some of the questions that that will that should wait until we actually get to the

00:57:53
 churches. But just to say briefly there comes a point in time when all of this disappears and that is at the time of the during there's a process in which the 144,000 is being developed. >> So so during this time we we still have the groups but then you come to a time now where the 144,000 is fully made up. Anybody who is left is in Babylon. The rest of Christianity is now categorized as Babylon because they have all departed from this this focal point at the 144,000. God is bringing the 144,000 to every

00:58:30
 true Christian will come to that place. And now we're all in in Philadelphia. So at that time I think the church distinctions may just kind of fall apart and we just have to we just have Babylon and the remnant. But up to that point in time we have these seven stages. That's what I would say. So would would you think would you say at this point that is the mark of the beast that will determine that? >> Yes. The mark of the beast is a great turning point. >> Yes. Sister Sister Esther's question

00:58:58
 about Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses, Amish. Now that that's that's a tricky question because I I I have my question as to whether Mormons are Christians at all. I'm reluctant to label them as Christians. But if we call Catholics Christians, I suppose we need to label Mormons as Christians as well and certainly Jehovah's Witnesses. Now they fall under Protestantism because you have those three great groups, Orthodox, Catholicism and Protestantism. Protestantism, you see the the assumption is this. The the

00:59:37
 categorizing goes like this. In the beginning, there was one Christian church. The way that history is looking at it, there was one Christian church and this church was the Roman Catholic Church. Okay? They they are looking at the the the public face of religion. The public face was Roman Catholicism. Roman Catholicism broke into two. So now you have two faces. You have the Orthodox Church and you have the Roman Catholic Church. Now along the way you began to have groups breaking away primarily from

01:00:08
 Roman Catholicism and this was because of the reformation. So you have what was called the Protestants where they protested against Catholicism. So now you have another branch of Christianity which is made up of all these many groups who who come into existence because they are protesting against Catholicism. So that covers all the other Christian groups. So that would embrace the Amish. It definitely came out during the reformation. The Menonites, the Amish, the Anabaptists, the um the wildensians.

01:00:44
 Um yeah, and even if we're going to put Mormons and Jehovah's Witnesses in the Christian category, yes, they would fall under Protestantism. Let's close off with prayer and then we're going to dismiss for today.

