00:00:01
 Okay. So, we're on our journey through Revelation again. So, a lot of what we're going to be looking at, a lot of what we have been looking at is material that we have already discussed maybe more than once in this meeting room. But uh what I've discovered and I maybe maybe the rest of us have also found this out is that each time we go back over, we are getting new insights. We're understanding things better. You know, sometimes God just shows us a word that we never saw before, never

00:00:45
 took notice of before. Just something that adds to the overall picture. And I know it is true for me. I have been studying the book of Revelation for 50 years. No kidding. Because from the time I became a Christian, I started. It's a long time. But I tell you what I find is that the there's no diminishing of learning. There's no diminishing of new insights. Something is always coming out that I never saw before. I know if this is true for me, it's probably true for the rest of us. So I

00:01:31
 want to reinforce the idea that is very strong in my mind, which is that the book for this generation is the book of Revelation. All of the Bible is important. But I really, really, really and really again do believe that revelation is specifically designed by the Lord God Almighty for the Christians who live in the final moments of time. And that means us, you know, Daniel this morning was commenting that we see well at least from our perspective. I don't know for anybody else, but I think

00:02:15
 I see a lot of truths emerging that we never understood before. And for me, this is a sign that we're coming to the end. This is a sign of the end. You know how God said to Daniel that many would run to and fro and knowledge would be increased. That's a sign that God gave and it's supposed to be a sign that we can look at and it gives us an awareness of where we are. So I think from my limited perspective I can look and see that this prophecy is being fulfilled and that again is an indication

00:02:56
 that we are living at the time of the end. So, it's especially important now that we delve into the prophecies of Revelation. I've said before and I will repeat it. I I'll repeat it now that the the gospel as it is commonly understood is is a magnificent truth. The truth about Christ our righteousness. the truth about what Jesus did at Calvary and in the resurrection to save humanity is is the greatest message of all times. But there's a but. The but is that we don't stop there. The

00:03:48
 story of Jesus, the story of the work of Christ did not stop at the resurrection. That is the great great shortcoming of many many of our Christian brothers and sisters. The great shortcoming is the belief that when Jesus ascended to heaven, that was the end of it. All we do for the rest of eternity until Jesus comes again at least is to sit down and review what happened when he was on earth and when he died. But we believe and it is kind of obvious that God gave us an insight into what is happening in heaven. What is Jesus

00:04:32
 doing? What is he doing post Calvary? What is happening in the plan of God in the ministry of Jesus since he went back to heaven? Did it stop at the resurrection at the ascension? Or is there something more to what Jesus is doing? And um revelation is God's revelation that there's something of great importance which is taking place and surely we ought to understand surely it was put there for our benefit. You know what is very interesting. Um I was with the fellowship from Germany on Friday.

00:05:18
 We have a a little meeting on Friday with a few believers from Germany. Um it's a little difficult because of course we have a translator and everything is being translated. It's it's not as spontaneous as we can be here. But um we were looking at Revelation 12 and Revelation 12 is where there are three three participants very significant. You have the woman, you have the serpent and you have the seed of the woman. Those are the three participants in Revelation 12. the woman, the serpent, and the seed of the woman.

00:06:07
 Now, this is in the book of Revelation. Why is that important? Because the the whole conflict begins in the garden of Eden with the woman, the serpent, and the promise of the seed. That's how it begins. Revelation is talking about the end of the story. It begins with the woman, the serpent, and the seed. And it ends with the woman, the serpent, and the seed. So, so when God drops the scene in in Revelation, nowhere else in the Bible, it's in Revelation that you see them coming back again, the woman, the

00:06:42
 serpent, and the seed. What is God saying? God is saying the time has come to end it. The same three players that were there at the beginning, the promise was there and now the fulfillment is here in the book of Revelation. So Genesis is the beginning of the story. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John is not the end of the story. Revelation is the end of the story. So it's very very painful to see that there are so many Christians who stop with the four gospels. But what I'm saying here, what I'm

00:07:25
 trying to do is to justify the fact that we are so obsessed with revelation. All right? As long as I am having this Bible class until I I get old, too old to speak, I probably will be talking about Revelation. So um like like you know Bob Marley said you are got tired for see me face all right if you know what that is in Jamaica you're going to get tired of seeing my face in this case the face of revelation cuz you're not going to leave it and will be fully understand there are still some

00:08:04
 some areas that I'm praying for understanding because I don't I don't have a their interpretation. But I think by the grace of God, he has led us beautifully and we have a foundation that is worth building upon. So anyway, after that long preamble, we're going to go to Revelation. We're actually at chapter six. You know, we have we have looked at the introduction. We saw the the we went through the letters to the seven churches which by the way it's the first time I'm

00:08:42
 understanding it as well as I now understand when we went through that last time the Lord opened my understanding to some things that I never saw before up to that point I would always say okay the seven churches we'll skip that part because it's not very critical but it has done something for me it has actually changed my attitude to everything because for the first time I have a I have an understanding that Catholics, Protestants, Orthodox, Pentecostals, all of these are a part of the church. I see it in a different way

00:09:22
 than I did before. It helps me to understand that, you know, I'm I'm critical of Catholicism. Very critical. I'm critical of Pentecostalism. I'm critical of the 7th Adventist church. But you know what? I I realize God took many people to Catholicism wanting to take them further. But he takes them to where they can get an introduction. God takes many people into the Adventist church, many people into even Pentecostalism, and they go into these churches and they have a a beginning experience. You have to start

00:09:57
 somewhere and then he he will he will take them to another place where they go go to a higher experience. It does not mean that the people who are in those conditions are lost. They are still a part of the church but they are a part of the church that needs to be built up. They are part of the church that needs further development. And that is where people like us come into the picture. Right? Uh we we we are not reaching every corner of the world. You have people in in places that we have never been and they're bringing the

00:10:31
 basics of Christianity. Elijah was not all of Israel. Elijah was not all of Israel. He was just one out of thousands, maybe millions. But his job was to reach the rest of Israel. And so we can understand our mission better when we understand this perspective. Our work is a work to build Israel to enlighten Israel. So we are very much justified in studying to get greater understanding and sharing it sharing it not just with the heathen but very much with other Christians. So then we went to Revelation chapter 4

00:11:14
 where John was taken into heaven through an open door. And as he went through this open door, what he saw was the judgment. It was the judgment scene. The same judgment that Daniel mentioned in Daniel chapter 7. The judgment was set and the books were open. In this case, it's the book of the seven seals. And we have all the all the the the elements that tell us that this is the judgment. The four living creatures full of eyes, the presence of the the the Holy Spirit in unlimited measure, the

00:11:50
 presence of all the millions of angels as witnesses, the presence of the 24 elders and then the books to be opened. We can see that this is the judgment. We saw that the only person who is able to open this book is Jesus, the lion of the tribe of J of the tribe of Judah. the lamb that was slain, the one who was one of who is one of us. And then we saw, not to be overlooked, not to be downplayed, when Jesus takes the book, the entire universe explodes into rejoicing like the universe has never seen.

00:12:26
 No such rejoicing has ever taken place, ever. Because it says when Jesus takes the book, every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and under the and in the sea and all that are in them bursts out in praise to the father and to the son. The opening of the book is an event that will affect the entire universe. Something great is to come out of this opening of the book. What can I say, brothers and sisters? When I think about it, oh my goodness, I am filled with a a sense of awe. I just

00:13:06
 want everybody to understand that heaven itself is involved. The universe is involved. And guess who is in the middle of it? You and me, right? We are the people studying and understanding this. Right? There there's something there's something mindblowing to think that you and I were involved in understanding something that affects the entire universe. God put it there for human beings to understand because when we understand something in our experience will change. We have a message that God intends

00:13:50
 that that his people should know because it's it's through the church. It's through the church in this experience of the judgment. It is through the church in this experience that the entire universe is going to come to understand the glory of God in such a way. in such a way that the whole universe will end up praising God. It has to do with the church, right? You you remember the verse in Ephesians, it says um that through the church in the ages to come, he might show his his wisdom.

00:14:33
 He might show the the riches of his wisdom. I'm not quoting it right, but it's Ephesians 3 and verse 10. Anyway, we're going to go ahead and share the screen and maybe Maybe I'll just use that verse as the first thing that I will look at since we um since I mention it. But before we go to Revelation 10, let me just quickly look at that verse because I mention it and I don't want to misquote. That is a verse that really is it really makes what is happening in Revelation so special. Ephesians 3 and:e 10. Here's

00:15:12
 what it says. It says it's to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery which from the beginning of the world has been hid in God who created all things by Jesus Christ to the intent or for this purpose that now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church are through the church. The manifold wisdom of God, the greatness of God's wisdom, the manysided wisdom of God is to be known to the universe, principalities and powers in heavenly places through the church. The

00:15:56
 greatness, the magnificence of the wisdom of God and this is the eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord. finally to be fulfilled at the end of time as described in the book of Revelation. So anyway, let's go now to the opening of the book with the seventh seal. Just like how I press record, I need to press the button on my phone every time the meeting begins because as soon as I start, I start getting warm. So every time somebody says please record I need to remember please start

00:16:44
 the fun. All right. So Revelation chapter 6 and um now Jesus begins to open the the seals. It says, "And I saw when the lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard as it were the noise of thunder, one of the four living creatures saying, come and see." All right. Now, this is one of the times when I definitely I'm going to go with the King James version. Now if you look at the the version on the right, this is the New International Version. It says, "I heard one of the four living

00:17:31
 creatures saying a voice like thunder, come." The King James version says, "Come and see." All right. Now, now is somebody adding to the scriptures here? What we know is that the New International Version and the King James version they are translated from two different manuscripts. So is that what is happening here? So the King James version the manuscript is the same as what we call the literal translation. Young's literal translation. Let me go to that version and see what it says. In Young's literal

00:18:10
 translation, it says, "And I saw when the lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying as it were, a voice of thunder, come and behold." So in that manuscript, the word see or behold is actually there. Now, if this is the judgment, this makes a lot of sense. Many many translations translators will prefer come because of how they understand what is happening. Right? So Jesus opens one of the seals and one of the four living creatures John is standing there and he hears one of the

00:18:59
 four living creatures says come and see. Now if instead of come and see the voice had said come, what would that word mean? What would come mean? It would be either speaking to John to tell John to come forward or it could be talking to whatever is in the seals and telling it to come out. But if if the if the if the living creature actually said come and see, what it is doing is telling all the assembled multitude, it's an invitation to examine what we are looking at. And since this is the judgment, that

00:19:42
 makes sense to me. It makes sense to me that in the judgment, as the evidence is presented, everybody is being told, "Come and see. Come and look at this. Look at the evidence." So it makes sense that they say that the voice says come and see. Not just come. Now you know that most interpreters, not all, but most of them believe that these seals represent disasters that will take place on the earth in the last days. Many of them, most of them, right? So, for example, they believe that the white

00:20:22
 horse, it's kind of ridiculous, but they believe that the white horse is the antichrist, right? They think the antichrist is coming and the white horse is the antichrist. And they think that the red horse is that there's going to be world war. There's going to be great warfare and blood is going to be all over the the world. And they they think each of these each of these seals represent progressive terrible disasters that will happen on earth. the the pale horse represents great famine and um

00:20:54
 and a lot of death and so on. So as I said in many of these interpretations there's not a pattern or a big picture understanding. They just look at a symbol and they attach a meaning to it. So for them it makes sense that the creature says come. Like in heaven God is saying okay come the next disaster come forth. God is calling a disaster or the living creature is calling a disaster upon the earth. So when when the the angel says come then the antichrist emerges. So I'm sharing these two perspectives

00:21:33
 because you can better appreciate what what you have if you understand what else is out there. So based on the fact that this is the judgment and we can tell this by going back to Daniel 7. The judgment was set and the books were open. Same identical scenery. So, so we know that this is a judgment and in the judgment it makes sense that when the book is open, the books are opened then everybody is being said come look at what is happening here. All right? So that is why the angel says come and see. There's nothing in

00:22:12
 revelation that is inconsequential. God deliberately set up this this this scenario for John and he he deliberately has the living creature saying come and see and John hears it and records it because God wants us to know okay we are to take a look at the evidence that is now being presented before us that's what that statement is about now the other thing I want to highlight is that um it says I heard as it the noise of thunder. I think most people who are here, you are you were around when we we did the study

00:23:00
 on the seven thunders. Okay. Um brother Yani introduced the idea of the seven thunders. I did some further studies on it and um I really believe very strongly that what he shared is is is what the truth is. Most of you will remember that. Now the seven thunders we concluded represents seven the seven great events seven great events in in the work of Christ in the finishing of the work of God in the last days in the in the time of the book of revelation the seven great events these are involved in the seven thunders so

00:23:45
 this is the second thunder the first one was in chapter 4 we saw that when when John was taken into heaven, he saw God sitting on the throne. Out of the throne, there were coming voices and thunderings and lightnings and that thunder that was the first thunder. And what it speaks about is that the judgment is about to begin. The first great event come to the end of time, the great first great event is that the judgment is about to take place. Now he's about to open the books. The the the the data is about to be

00:24:17
 examined. And so now the voice, the second thunder, the voice like thunder says come and see the next stage, next vital component of this end time scenario. All right. So he says in verse two, "And I saw and behold a white horse, and he that sat on him had a bow, and a crown was given unto him, and he went forth conquering and to conquer." I want to reinforce what we have what we have discussed before. Like I said, if you are new to these studies, maybe you have never been exposed to this

00:25:03
 understanding. But let me go through again. So John sees a white horse. Somebody sitting on him. We we'll look at that a little more closely. But I want you to understand what happens. All right? So remember everything that we are looking at is happening in heaven. It's very important that we should remember that John is standing John is standing let me change my color here. John is standing in heaven. John is standing in heaven. What is he doing here? God has invited him to come up there. A voice said to him, "Come up

00:25:42
 here and I will show you things that are to happen after this." So he's taken into heaven. He's standing there with his mouth wide open. He is aruck by what he's seeing. But he's standing there and what he's doing is telling you everything that he sees. So he heard the living creature saying come and see. And what happens next? He does not see something happening on earth. He sees something happening in heaven. He sees a white horse. He sees a horse riding across heaven.

00:26:21
 Now I'm I'm going to just speculate a little and let my imagination run because what I think is happening here and what I want to share with you what is happening here is that John is seeing I I use the word respectfully. John is seeing a movie. He's seeing a movie. You you can sit in your living room and you can be seeing something happening in in um Antarctic in the Antarctic but it's happening in your living room because the TV screen is in your room but it's depicting something that is

00:27:00
 happening in the Antarctic. So it's true it is happening in your living room but it's also representing something happening somewhere else. And that's what happens with John. God has taken him to heaven to see the judgment. Everything that we are seeing in the judgment, John is seeing it in heaven. So I say a movie or or or a video screen because he is seeing these things taking place in heaven. It's like he's sitting down and watching TV and he's seeing these things taking place right before

00:27:29
 his eyes. But they are depicting things that have happened already, things that happened in the past, but at the present time he has been taken into heaven to see when the when the video is turned on or when the book is opened. So I I hope everybody can understand when I use these terms video, TV, because what the Bible does, the Bible uses the descriptions from the age in which revelation was written. God does not talk about video and audio tape and um anything like that because he's using language that

00:28:12
 everybody can is able to relate to. So he talk talks about books and in in actual fact he probably spoke about scrolls because they never had printed books you know sometimes when you get some of these images I mean I even asked chat GPT to make an image from it and with John eating the book it's a little book nicely bound with a cover and everything chat GPT is modernizing but in actual fact in John's day it was a scroll it wasn't a book sometimes you have to live with these um misrepresentations But so in heaven, God

00:28:45
 shows us a book, but we have to be sensible and understand. Heaven is not using archaic technology. Whatever it is, we don't know. But we are certain it is far more sophisticated than anything that humanity has ever developed. So when John looks, it gives us a better idea when he says he sees a white horse. He he he doesn't say I saw written in the book a record talking about a white horse and so on because it's not a book. It's something visible. He instead of writing or even audio, he

00:29:21
 gets a a a video representation. The history that he's looking at is presented in video. And this video is also symbolic because it's history not about a horse. It's history about the church. It's history about the kingdom. But God again disguises it in the form of an image of a horse because that's the nature of revelation. You know, I would say I I I thank God every day because I tell you something, if it wasn't for the Holy Spirit, you would not have a a a hope of beginning

00:29:59
 to understand Revelation because everything is put together in a way that is very confusing. I I it's one of my joys when I begin to understand the book because so much is there to confuse you. How can anybody understand you really need you really can appreciate that God is directing when you begin to understand? It's deliberately designed to to to to make you confused. You know, I I I I have to divert a little and talk about this on how much I appreciate God's wisdom. You know, you know what?

00:30:36
 you you can do sometimes is look at the interpretation of the prophecies and then and then reverse it. Take yourself as somebody who is sitting down now to design the prophecy and you're going to try to put it in a way that that is like like a you're you're creating a puzzle but you want it to be clear enough that people can understand but it needs to be a puzzle that it's hard to be to understand. How would you put it together? And you think of that mind that is at work here, the mind of God.

00:31:03
 And he's talking about beasts. But then he changes and he says, "Okay, a goat and a ram." And then he's talking about days, then he talks about weeks, then he talks about months, then he talks about times, then he talks about evenings and mornings. He's just changing up everything. And you would think, "Oh, goodness me. How can I even hope to understand this?" But the one who put it there is the one who is teaching you how to understand it. That's the beauty of it, you know. So

00:31:30
 you go to approach these prophecies and you you go with a humble spirit and you say, "Father, I am open." That's all you can bring. You bring your wisdom, you're going to end up pure foolishness. You're going to be totally confused. But the one who put it there is the one who will open it to our understanding. That's the beauty of it. And that is that is why I find so much joy in understanding these things because I know it's not a human it's not because of human wisdom. It's because of

00:31:59
 divine direction you know and every time we come upon something that is hard to understand. I know how to begin to approach it. I go to the Lord in prayer. If you don't do that give up cuz you you ain't going to learn by intellect and the ability to to work out puzzles. that is not going to help a lot. So John is here in heaven and he sees this he sees this horse. Now this horse here there's a verse in Zechariah that gives us at least one little basis for understanding that this horse what

00:32:44
 this horse represents. Is it chapter 10 or 12? Okay, it's not 10 art if I'm mistaken here. Let me find it then. Um, let me find it quickly. Zechariah 10. Yes, it's Zechariah 10, but it's verse three. It's just one little verse in the middle of Zechariah, but it helps us because it says, "My anger was kindled against the shepherd and I punished the goats." But the point that is relevant is here is where it says, "For the Lord of hosts, Yahweh of armies hath visited his flock, the house of

00:33:31
 Judah, his people, and hath made them as his goodly horse in the battle. It's only one verse, but the the the point behind the verse is that it says that at least on this occasion, God has made his people, the house of Judah, he has made them as his horse when he's going to battle. And this this is a strange statement because if you look at it as a picture, it's God riding upon his people. But what it really means, you know, a horse is is a tool that you use in warfare. You know that when people went to fight

00:34:12
 war back in those days, if you had horses, you had a great advantage over the people who were on foot. So the horse gave you a great advantage. So God is saying that his people are like a horse that he uses. In other words, he's saying that we're a tool. We're a tool that helps God in the battle that he's fighting. It's like in another place when he's talking about Jesus. He says, "You are my battle axe and my weapon of war. God does not fight as we fight." Well, as humans fight, you

00:34:42
 know, with weapon. God's God's battles are he wants he he's demonstrating how his government works. He's demonstrating how his principles play out and how through the most unusual means he's able to create great effects and the great purposes that God is working out in this world and the universe is through his people. That's why it is so important now that we are understanding these things because we can get to understand what purpose does he have for me? What does he want to do through me? The kingdom of

00:35:14
 God, the church of God, the people of God are like his goodly horse. And with them, he's going to he's going to overthrow the kingdom of Satan. He's going to overthrow all the principles that Satan has been building for 6,000 years through the church. That's why we need to understand his purposes because we are represented by that horse. So the the first horse the fir this this horse that goes riding forth this white horse what does it represent? Well one of the things that we have picked up even as we

00:35:53
 were going through the seven churches is that these these churches represented aspects of the church that began at a certain point. There were different ages and and the seals are similar in a way because what we are looking at uh in these seals is the is the kingdom of Christ. You know in the churches we were looking at it from the perspective of the church. Now we are looking at it from the perspective of the kingdom. And in the kingdom it's the kingdom at war. It's the kingdom of Christ at war with the

00:36:28
 with the forces of darkness. And the first phase of this kingdom is the apostolic church. The church as it appeared at the beginning is described in this way as let me go back to revelation here. When the church appeared, it says there was a white horse. All right? White. White is always used as a symbol of purity. The one that sat on him had a bow. A bow symbolizes going to war. A crown was given onto him. A crown symbolizes that he's he has he is royalty and he is victorious. And he went forth conquering and to

00:37:15
 conquer the apostolic church. The church at the beginning was not perfect, but it was a conquering church and it was maybe the best manifestation of the kingdom that has ever been seen on the world from that point until today. It was the best. Now, this probably I would say I'm I'm going to put a time period on it. Now when I put these time periods what we should understand is that these time periods are kind of like you know very broad very generalized please don't pinpoint it like it is exact god

00:38:02
 gives us the church or the kingdom in seven phases and we can generally say okay this phase was like this phase was like this but to put a precise date on it I don't think that is what we can do because the apostolic church you would say when did it end So roughly I'm going to say this is about from AD30 to AD 100. And why do I say 100? Because AD 100 is round about the time that the Apostle John died. John was the last of the apostles. So between AD30 to AD 100, the entire generation, that generation, the

00:38:39
 apostolic church was gone. So the second thing I want to point out is that what we can see here then is that this judgment begins with the apostolic church. It doesn't go back to the garden of Eden. It doesn't begin with Adam and Eve. It does not begin with the people in the days of Noah. Those people are not a part of this judgment. And this emphasizes something. Here's what I want to emphasize. This is not a judgment of people per se. Otherwise, they would have to be in it, right?

00:39:18
 You'd have to go back to Adam and start from Adam coming right down. If it were the individual people who are being examined if it if this was the issue, every human being would have to be examined. But it doesn't begin with Adam. It begins with the apostolic church. And why is that? Because before the apostolic church, God God's kingdom was not set up. Remember this is an examination of the kingdom and the kingdom did not begin until when Jesus was crucified and resurrected. That's

00:39:50
 when the kingdom began. So this white horse starts with the kingdom which is the apostolic period and that that that reinforces the fact that when we talk about this judgment, it's not the judgment of individual people. It's the judgment of the kingdom of Christ. That is what is being examined. Now it is true that if you are if you're examining the kingdom, brother Ian is a part of the kingdom. Sister Helena is a part of the kingdom. You cannot examine the kingdom in a vacuum. Sister Helena is a part of the kingdom.

00:40:26
 Then you have to look at her when you're looking at the kingdom. You have to look at Aon when you're looking at the kingdom. You have to look at Sister Venice when you're looking at the kingdom. Brother Dwayne, me. Because we are the kingdom. So we are the testimony of the kingdom. Is the kingdom working. That for me is very sobering. David Clayton, I want the kingdom to be glorified in my life. That's a motivation for me. Right? I'm not afraid. My salvation is not in jeopardy.

00:40:51
 But oh, I want my God and his son to be glorified in me. That's my motivation. So, so when my life is put on display, Jesus's kingdom is either exalted or it is diminished. It's not my salvation. It's my family, my kingdom, my God, his purpose. That's the issue. And that's a far greater motivation for me than the idea of my own personal salvation. But this is the this is the evidence that it's not about individual people because it begins with the apostolic church. If it was about individual, it

00:41:34
 would have to go all the way back to Adam. But it doesn't. So this is to kind of reinforce the fact that we're not talking about the investigative judgment the way Adventists teach it. We are talking about a pre-advent judgment focused on the kingdom not upon individual person's salvation. That is not the issue even though individuals are being examined as a part of the process. So I hope that is clear to everybody. All right. It says in verse three, "And when he had opened the second seal,

00:42:16
 I heard the second beast say, come and see." There you go again. Now, why is it that it is the beasts who are saying this? Why is it that it is the beasts who are saying this? Now, let me just um quickly ask the question. I don't know if anybody wants to unmute quickly and suggest an answer. Why is it that the beasts are saying this? I just want to see if I can get a little feedback on this. Why do you think it's the beasts who are saying this? All right, I won't I won't wait too

00:42:53
 long. >> Are those the guardians of Israel? So, they are the guardians of the church. >> They are the guardians of Israel. Yes. Um, you were going to say something, Sister Jes. um because they're the ones that have uh seen and recorded everything. So they're the ones who are going to tell about I guess what they've seen and recorded. >> Same answer. Thank you very much. >> They're the watchers. >> They are the watchers. Sister Suzanne. Yes. So So these are the people who have

00:43:23
 access to the information and you might even say more. They are the ones who have recorded the information. So So everything is fitting together perfectly. These are the the these are the beings who have been responsible for monitoring Israel. Israel moves under their banner. So they are the watchers. They are the ones who who have access to this information and who have actually recorded the information. So they are responsible for this data. So so each one of them is is calling forth is calling forth um is is is unfolding the

00:43:56
 information and calling everybody to come and look and see. most appropriate because they are the ones who are who are responsible for this data. So he opens he opens the next seal, the next seal. And it says, "And there went out another horse that was red, and power was given to him that sat there on to take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another, and there was given unto him a great sword." I know that um there there may be many interpretations to this but the one that that makes the

00:44:35
 most sense as far as I am concerned is that this represents the next stage of the Christian church or the next stage of the kingdom after the apost apostles died. The next stage of the church was one of great persecution from the secular powers as the church began to grow or as let let's say the kingdom because we are looking at this from the perspective of the kingdom. As the kingdom began to expand, there came a time when the kingdom became popular the public face of the kingdom it was widely accepted. But not

00:45:12
 yet. Before it came to that place, it was it was an object of great what? Enmity. Great great hatred. The the the public world hated Christianity. And it became what Jesus had prophesied was strikingly manifested in the next 300 years. Remember Jesus said, "I came not to bring peace, but what?" But a sword. I came to bring bring a sword. And notice that this horse there is given to him a great sword. Jesus said, "I came to bring a sword." And um I didn't come to to bring peace.

00:45:54
 And so it the time has the time comes when the church becomes a a stumbling block in the world. And this was the period of time in which the Roman Empire emperors persecuted Christians mercilessly. Many of them were thrown into wild beasts. They were taken to the arenas and thrown to wild beasts or they were just killed for for entertainment. The the mad emperor Nero um used used them to light his garden at night, set them up, dip them in tar and set them up in the garden and and set them on fire. So

00:46:28
 this was fulfilled in this period of time, the next 300 years or so. And this was fulfilled. This red horse, the rider carrying the sword, Christianity or the kingdom became a source of great uh bloodshed and a source of conflict in the world. And um again I'm going to uh we put a a general date on this like from about AD 100 when the last apostle died to about AD 313 dur this great persecution continued during those first 300 years. So generally speaking that's the date that we will put on that period of the

00:47:16
 church. Go ahead brother Kip. You think uh that earth would just be representing uh uh God's chosen people instead of the whole world but representing them? Um I don't I don't think so. I don't know of any reason why you know the earth would just represent the church. I think um the peace that was taken from the earth I mean even if God's people are the ones that are being killed but the people who are killing them are not in peace either. You know what I think it it implies is that Christianity became a

00:47:58
 force in the world. It began to spread across the world and and wherever it spread this persecution was taking place and this it was even becoming a a a a significant source of blood shed bloodshed because of the opposition that that it was facing. So this was something that was happening all over the world as Christianity began to spread. So I would think um yeah more than just Christianity. Brother Keip. Verse 5 says, "And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beast say, "Come and see."

00:48:39
 And I beheld, I saw, and and lo, a black horse. And he that sat on him had a pair of balances in his hand. And I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts, saying, "A measure of wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley for a penny, and see thou hurt not the oil and the wine." This is very striking when we begin to apply the the meaning of symbols. You know I I read where people say that this represents some famine represents a famine where people are willing to sell where things become very expensive

00:49:19
 wheat and barley but um I've never heard them explain do not hurt the oil and the wine because you see this is this is this is very symbolic very figurative and you have to apply the figures that we understand that Jesus uses that the prophecy uses So, what do we see here? Um, this black horse, he's carrying a pair of balances. And of course, balances symbolize, you know, there are scales. You use them for measuring things. But what is he selling? He's selling wheat and barley. But what is he not allowed to hurt? He's

00:50:02
 not allowed to hurt the oil and the wine. And all of these, every one of these things have striking symbolism in the word of God. Wheat and barley are well recognized elements that you use to make a to make bread. And bread represents the word of God. It's it's very clear that in this age in this period of the church what is happening is that the the the the the kingdom the kingdom is going downhill. It it reaches a place where the word of God is being sold cheap, right? the the the the church is at a place where it is

00:50:44
 obtaining favor because it compromises the word of God. It is it is it is giving up the realities that are in the word of God. Giving up the truth in order to gain worldly benefit. But even in the midst of this, a command is there from God that the oil and the wine. And oil and wine are clear symbols of the Holy Spirit, the work of the Holy Spirit, the work of the Holy Spirit is not to be crushed. It's not to be stopped. So, so even though there is this taking place, this the church has reached a place or the kingdom has

00:51:26
 reached a place where it it is terribly compromised. It's degraded going downhill. But even though the word of God now is become so corrupted and everybody understands that it is during this period of time that you have things like the council of Nika. Anybody knows what happened then? you know and and thing the these kinds of moments were taking place in the history of the kingdom where things like the trinity, things like Sunday observance, things like the worship of saints, things like you know all the the

00:52:08
 different perversions that became famous in the Roman Catholic system and in the Orthodox church system. All of these many of them came in during this period. They were willing to compromise the word of God. Why? Because the church was becoming popular at this time. Persecution had stopped and the church was becoming accepted by kings and and and people in in in high places. And so to make to make it easier for the church to go forward, they compromised the truth. And that's exactly what this

00:52:41
 symbol is talking about. In this period of the church, truth was degraded while worldly benefit was was upheld, was promoted and in the social world the kingdom was growing. In the spiritual world, it was dying. Everybody knows that uh 538 was the year when the Roman Catholic Church, the Roman Catholic Pope gained his position as as as he he became undisputed head of Christendom. 538 was the beginning of the supremacy of the papacy and um everything was building up to that point. The church was compromising. They

00:53:33
 were bringing in all these perverted doctrines. So it was it was aptly represented by this rider on this black horse. And you notice that the colors of the horses are changing from white to red to black. I mean we're not we're not being color prejudice now. But colors represent something. God gives colors because he wants us to think of something. And what we can see is a degradation. White represents what is clean and pure and black represents that you're going in the other direction.

00:54:09
 So we go back to the Bible and we see that in verse 7 it says and when he had opened the fourth seal I heard the voice of the fourth beast say come and see. And again he looked. I looked and behold a a a pale horse. Not white, not red, not black. Where do you go after you come to black? Doesn't seem that you can get any worse. But this one, yeah, this one is worse. This one is a pale horse. And um I understand that this pale is the word that you would use. Like for example, if you if you cover if you cover a plant, you

00:54:49
 know, like you put a piece of of board on the grass and you leave it for a few days or a few weeks, when you when you lift it up, the color of the grass is pale and sickly like it's like it's it has been dying. That's the word that it would would be used to rep uh to signify this horse. A pale horse, something sickly with a p of death over it. the power of death. And his name that sat on him was death. So death is riding this horse. And hell followed with him. And power was given unto them over the

00:55:26
 fourth part of the earth to kill with sword and with hunger and with death and with the beasts of the earth. And um I think you know it's kind of obvious that this represents the next stage of the church. And um the the next stage of the church was the stage where or the next stage of the kingdom is a stage that we would refer to as the the heyday of the papacy. It was a period of time in which the Roman Catholic Church ruled the world as not just supreme over Christians but supreme over political powers as well. for a period

00:56:14
 of time that most of us are familiar with from about 538 to about 1517. Um Rome was undisputed and even 1517 is not quite the end of it because 1517 is when uh the re the the reformation kind of officially began under under Martin Luther. But it certainly did not bring an end to the dominance of the papacy. It was just the beginning of the the diminishing of the power. But it continued for several centuries afterwards. But at least from these years that we see represented here, what is said in the Bible here is precisely what

00:56:56
 happened. The kingdom of God became a a source of death to kill with sword, with hunger, with death, and with the beast of air. Now, somebody's going to say, I know, I know how it is. Somebody's going to say that was not the kingdom of God. Somebody's going to say that was not the kingdom of God. And what what what I'm trying to do and what I think we need to do is to look at the biblical perspective. Jesus says that the kingdom of God is made up of wheat and tears. If you read Matthew 13,

00:57:35
 he says that then shall the kingdom of God be likened. All the parables that he told about the kingdom of God, most of them had good and bad, right? He said the kingdom of God, he he planted a field of good seed and an enemy came and planted tears. But the tears are in the kingdom. They are in the kingdom so much that the the servants see the tears and they say, "Let's go and root them up." And Jesus says, "No, no, let them grow together till the harvest." So the evil face of the kingdom is still the

00:58:04
 kingdom. It's a public face of the kingdom. It's not correct to say that just because the the the the Christian church was in an evil condition, it was not the kingdom. It was the kingdom. It was the kingdom in a perverted form, in a in in a in an apostate form, but it's still the kingdom. The kingdom has goat and sheep. The kingdom has people in it who have climbed over the wall who never came through the door, but they are in the kingdom just the same. This is why this is why when it comes to the

00:58:44
 kingdom, Satan has room for accusation. If the kingdom was made up only of the saints, Satan wouldn't have any any argument. But the argument that Satan has is that this is the kingdom of Christ. And look at how look at the history. So as they are in heaven examining the kingdom, the record is not looking so good. The record is not looking so good. Go ahead, brother Kip. You know, I know what we say about uh chapter 20, death and hell being thrown into the furnace. Could this possibly be uh what it's referring to

00:59:25
 here in this chapter? death and hell. >> I I suppose we can make some kind of connection. Um I don't think there's a direct connection and I'll explain why because this this death here is mentioned because it is saying that this this stage of the kingdom the murdering of people is a highlight. The grave and the killing of people is a highlight at this stage of the kingdom. That's how bad it has become. But when you go to Revelation 20 and it says death and hell are thrown into the lake

01:00:07
 of fire. What it is saying is that there's no more dying and there's no more grave. Those things come to an end forever. So what we see in Revelation chapter 6 here is just showing you death working in a certain context. Death is working in the Christian kingdom. in the kingdom in the Christian church. So you know death works many other places. Death works through the beast. Death works through the seven plagues. So so what it is doing here the only reason why it is astonishing is because it is working through the

01:00:41
 Christian church. That's why death's appearance here is so amazing because the kingdom of God is about life. But here it has come to a place where death is dominating. Hell is the fruit edge of this stage of the kingdom. So that is why death riding the kingdom at this time is so appalling and so astonishing. Now, okay, the next seal is seal number five. And um I'm going to pause a little bit, not go to seal number five immediately because seal number five takes some I want to take some time with seal number five and we

01:01:28
 don't have that kind of time this evening. But I want to just skip ahead quickly and show you something. All right. Now if you look at this diagram that I have on the screen, these represent the four horses. the white horse, the red horse, the black horse, the pale horse. And if you look at it, you will see that the direction is down in terms of the color. The direction is down. Now, if we are really looking at the if we are really looking at the kingdom of Jesus and if this is really a judgment of the

01:02:03
 kingdom, then you would have to say at this point that the judgment is proving that the the the the government of Christ is failing. If Jesus has a kingdom, he set up a kingdom when he was leaving here. And when you look at this kingdom, because what we are talking about is the public face of the kingdom. The kingdom is to be looked at publicly. So you can't say, well, it's just some bad eggs among them. No, it's the kingdom. It's the face of the kingdom. This is what the universe is seeing. This is what the

01:02:32
 world is seeing. So it is of great, it disturbs us greatly to see that the kingdom of God starts out pure and white and then the nature gradually changes. It's going downhill. It's getting bad. It's getting worse until it comes to the place where it is a it is a tool of death. It's a tool of debt in the hand of Satan. You know, at this point it appears that the kingdom of God is a perfect failure. The judgment is proving something is wrong. Now, I want to we we we're going to see what happens

01:03:14
 next week. what happens next because this is not the end of the story. But up to this point, things are looking pretty dismal for the kingdom. And before brother Aon uh makes his point or asks his question, I want to just explain why why does this happen? Why does the kingdom of Christ go through this kind of situation where it goes from good to terrible? Why? And maybe I want to ask a question, but anyway, I probably should ask the question and to get our opinion. So, I'm going to let brother

01:03:53
 make his point and then I'm going to ask the question. Go ahead, brother. Uh I just I'm just making an observation here that there are four these are there are four beasts and there are four horses and each of the beast speak um spoke to each to to one horse each and after the last horse is shown we don't hear from the beast in terms of these seals again I don't know if they spoke if they have spoken again have they spoken after that because it seemed one horse to to one beast and

01:04:28
 then there are no more horses after the after the fourth beast say come and see. Um it might be that they do speak afterwards I think but I can't recall exactly at what point but but but to to to address your question the the reason why I think there are no more horses is because from this point onwards the next seal is focusing on the experience of those who are Okay. It begins it begins yes with the the souls under the altar, the next seal, but it also includes the sealing of the 144,000. So in the next seal, we

01:05:13
 move to the the the present era. These these four horses are referring to the history of the kingdom in the past, but the next seal is going to take us to the living experience of the living kingdom. So I think that's why we are no longer looking at horses. We're looking at at at other events that show us what is happening in the dynamic presence. So we'll talk about this um next week. But even before um before brother Dwayne makes his point, I want to ask a question. Why what is the the real

01:05:45
 reason why the kingdom that God set up that Jesus set up that was so beautiful and perfect? How can you justify that the government of Christ leads a kingdom from this condition down to that death-like condition? If if this is so it suggest that the government of Christ is not working. How can we explain that? >> Maybe it's not the government of Christ. Maybe it's what man eventually did. >> Thank you, brother Dwayne. I don't know if anybody wants to expand on that a little bit.

01:06:22
 I couldn't really hear what he said, but uh I think it might be the fact that the church started uh believing in their own ways of doing things. >> Yeah, it's kind of ties in with what he said. Uh brother Kip kind of ties in with what he said, sister. Oh, >> go ahead. Oh, I can speak. >> Yes, go ahead. >> Maybe maybe it's because we're in a controversy and everything has to play out till the end. And because history usually is prone to repeat, it'll happen

01:07:05
 until God's time is completed for for for all to >> All right. Thank you, Sister Talia. That's an interesting um observation. um what brother Dwayne says and what brother Kip says kind of are similar where they said that it it's because you know maybe brother Dwayne says maybe it wasn't Jesus was really leading brother Ke says maybe they were listening to men and th this is is the real point that is it's the million dollar point a million dollars doesn't even justify

01:07:43
 it it's the great point that it has destroyed everything that God has tried to do since the kingdom started. And it is this. Every time the the kingdom has gone through a revolution in all ages, you know what they have done? They have gone back and they have established human control. We say Jesus is in charge and we set up a human system of government. What kind of what kind of nonsense is this? How can Jesus be in charge when you have human beings at the helm? Jesus told them from the beginning. He says, you know, that the

01:08:23
 the the the Gentiles, the princes of the Gentiles exercise authority upon them and those who are considered great among them, they rule over them. But he says it shall not be so among you. Jesus established that one is your master even Christ. Tell me from the beginning right from the beginning even in the apostolic church. Read through the book of acts and you will see that James became the head for some strange reason. And it was not James the brother of John. It was another James the brother of Jesus who was not

01:08:59
 even one of the twel apostles. He was he was he became the head of the church. from early they established a system of human government. That is why the papacy was able to come into prominence prominence. The the bishop of Rome became the primary authority in the Christian kingdom. And because of this, you cannot go anywhere but in the direction of Satanism when human beings are in control. If you even look at where most of us are coming from from the Adventist church, look at look at the direction. A church that began

01:09:35
 not believing in the Trinity, a church that began where where we have the record that Jesus was trying to to to bring them to a place where they understood Christ and his righteousness. Why did they go straight from believing Jesus is the son of God in a in a in a few decades they're at the place where they're believing the same doctrine as Roman Catholicism, the Trinity? Why? That didn't come from the people. That came from human control. That came from human government. And I will tell you

01:10:05
 if time lasts more of these aber aberant teachings will take over in that denomination because that is the way human government works. It goes to the place where they begin to persecute people who who are who are different, where they set up creeds that they used to to to to exclude people. It's the same pattern over and over. Protestantism comes out of Catholicism. They set up human control. Adventism comes out of Protestantism. They set up human control. If you even look at these poor little

01:10:44
 OTG, one god offshoots and they're trying to set up general conference. Have you Have you ever seen it? I mean, I don't want to it's not it's not it's not I don't want to attack other people, but you know the people who are with the Smyrna group, they're trying to set up their 1888 conference. They're setting up a conference, right, with with people in charge, some kind of general conference. one little speck of little group of people. The other group from from the other side who used to be

01:11:14
 um who used to be what's their name? They're forming another conference. You have two rival conferences in our little fellowship with barely a few hundred people, right? Everybody wants to be in control and they they they are dysfellowshipping people and they they are separating from people and they are ostracizing human control. The same craziness from the beginning. Jesus is not allowed to be in charge. That's the reason why the Christian church is going downhill. Look here, it changes

01:11:43
 direction. We will look at that next week. It changes direction. But you know when it changes direction, it is when Jesus Christ is allowed to be Lord. It is when the message of Christ and his righteousness takes its true effect. Things are going to change. The kingdom is to be vindicated. God's kingdom is to win at the end. but it will win because human control is finally eliminated. So that's one of the themes that we will look at more as we go through the book of revelation. But I want to end on that

01:12:15
 note this week and then we will then we will have occasion to examine more closely as we continue next week. Now I saw you had your hand up brother doing I don't know if that was a point you made or there was something else. There there was something else, brother David. Um, we went through the seven churches, right? But I'm also seeing uh seven seals. Now, based upon what you're saying, it seem as if um the seven seals uh somewhat um travels in time, right? So does the seventh seal has any

01:12:56
 significant bearing on the timeline of the seven churches? That's my question. >> I I think when you look at the history of both the church and the kingdom, there is overlapping. But I don't think it's precisely where you can say this is equival is equal to this exactly. No, I don't think so. Because the seventh church for example is Leodicia and the seventh seal is the is the opening of the seven trumpets and that is not Leodysia. So there is some degree of overlapping when you look at the

01:13:31
 history of the church at the beginning but it doesn't continue right through. That's why I say it overlaps somewhat but not not precisely. All right. So, >> thanks. >> I don't know if there's any other comment or question >> there. There is one, brother David. Um, in in in your thoughts, um, I'd like to know, well, when when and how do you believe that the judgment has begun? the judgment. Yes, I do believe so. I I believe so. >> Okay. Thank you. >> But but I think that the most important

01:14:14
 thing is when the judgment comes to us who are alive and I don't think that has begun. I know that has not begun. >> Agreed. >> Okay. But but uh I think it's brother Michael and then brother Jimmy. >> Uh can everyone hear me? Sure, brother Mike. You're you're audible. >> Oh, beautiful. Um, I just had one question about Revelation 13 and the mark of the beast with buying or selling. If that section of the vision of Revelation is entirely symbolic between chapters 4 and 19 because it's the

01:14:57
 history of the kingdom of Christ and the kingdom of Satan being contrasted that that whole block of those chapters and because Revelation 13 is in the midst of it. Can we even view buying and selling as literal? Because in Revelation 18 with the destruction of uh the woman, it says that the merchants of the earth weep over her uh over her death and they can't sell things that are tied to worship, things like related to garments and and uh perfumes and things that are clearly not literal. So, if there is a

01:15:36
 symbolic usage of buying and selling merchants in Revelation 18, how do you think that could be applied to Revelation 13's buying or selling if you don't receive the mark? >> Um, yeah, I I know that I think it was brother Joel who asked that question sometime in the past and um I I agree that buying and selling could possibly be um figurative because there's so much in the passage that is figurative. But um so if if we if we say it's not necessarily literal, the question would would arise,

01:16:12
 what then could it mean? Because clearly what happens is that the message is clear that those who don't have the mark of the beast are going to be penalized. It's going to be a penalty for them. And the penalty is a frightful one. Right? As a matter of fact, it suggests that you go from buying and selling onto a death sentence if you don't have the mark of the beast. So is the is the death sentence also figurative but figurative of what? So that's a challenge because if you say if we say

01:16:39
 it's not literal, we don't really have an alternative to say what it means. It's a penalty. Something is going to happen to those who don't receive the mark of the beast. And the something that happens is of such a nature that it it's an attempt to compel them to receive the mark. So if it's not buying and selling and if it's not a death sentence, then what is it? Um, brother David, could it be commerce? Commerce in general or commerce in a in a macro level or a micro level?

01:17:09
 >> Yes, brother Cliff, but it's the same thing. I mean, commerce is simply a a bigger way of saying buying and selling. I mean, of course, it's commerce, but um it's the same buying and selling, but just that it's taking place on a bigger scale. So what I proposed is that in the gospel narrative the Simon Maggus tried to purchase the Holy Spirit and was rebuked by Peter. The parable of the 10 virgins they had to go and buy oil and oil represents the Holy Spirit. So it's

01:17:37
 like the and they were not welcomed into the wedding trying to buy the righteousness of Christ. So what it is is I think the mark of the beast will prevent the preaching of the gospel. It's like you you don't have an ability to have any kind of religious or spiritual uh authority without being able to be in the beast system. You will only be able to practice any form of religion or preach if you are approved by the beast system. Uh that's at least the way I see it. That takes it beyond

01:18:10
 just uh you know a monetary punishment. Yeah. But the the problem brother um Michael is that it says the people who have the mark will be able to buy and sell. >> Yes. And they could sell like their version of spirituality. >> Yeah. Um but it doesn't say that. It says that the people who don't have the mark you cannot buy or sell but the people who have the mark you can buy and sell. So, so it's a privilege they have that we don't have. So, you it doesn't make sense that you

01:18:49
 make it two different things. >> I see. >> That's how I would would would look at it, you know. So, that's one of the obstacles I would see to thinking or to coming to that conclusion. >> I think that the revelation 18 is the same thing is similar. It's commercial. >> Yeah. that that Babylon the system of Babylon is involving a lot of commerce. >> That's exactly. >> Okay. Yes.

