00:00:01
 We we have been going through Daniel and Revelation. We're now at Revelation chapter 6, about halfway through the chapter. And um we're going to go through um We're going to do a little bit of a review before we continue from where we were last week. But um All right, I wanted to do a little bit of a review as I said and maybe do a little some of the background that we have not covered. We didn't cover this last week, but I still want to go through it. So, uh there there are some some points I have on the screen.

00:00:47
 I want to just highlight these before we go any further because I believe that it's important that we understand this. Uh uh a lot of the confusion that exists in the religious world, but particularly in the study of Daniel and Revelation is because as we have said over and over, people don't get the big picture. I think that is so important. If you don't understand if we don't understand the background information, what is going on on a cosmic level, Revelation will not make sense. Or it

00:01:27
 will be it will just be a jumble of disconnected events that don't harmonize and that don't make any cohesive pattern. And that is how many people approach the book of Revelation. This morning we were talking about um why people misunderstand the gospel and it is because I mean, the conclusion was that it is because they they they limit their understanding of the gospel to what is happening on this world. Probably the most significant aspect of the whole thing that we have been looking at

00:02:02
 is the idea that the conflict that is taking place is a conflict that involves the universe. It is bigger than this planet. It is bigger than the salvation of humanity. If if our understanding of God's communication and God's work is limited to this planet we are limited in how we we're going to interpret things. The book of Revelation is dealing with cosmic issues. And of course, you know, when I say cosmic, I mean issues that affect the whole universe, not just planet Earth. It is bigger

00:02:37
 than the salvation of men. And this is something we have said repeatedly. So, I just want to have the put these points on the screen so we can remind ourselves. So, what we see is that the first the genesis of everything is that in the beginning God's kingdom was attacked by Satan. As we pointed out this morning, it was God's character. And God's government or God's Yeah, God's government which is the the foundation of his kingdom. So, God's kingdom was attacked by Satan.

00:03:12
 And God's way of defending himself was not to destroy Satan. It was not to say, "You presumptuous rat, let me wipe you out." No. God's defense was to reveal the truth. Always. God's way of defense is to reveal truth. It it it should be obvious to everybody. I don't need to say it, but sometimes you point out something and it it it you can you can grasp it a little more readily. It should be obvious. God does not defend himself by force. If this was so, no controversy would exist. No

00:03:45
 rebellion would exist. No sin would exist. If if what is involved is the force or the power of a God who can create a universe with a a with a thought. Of a God who can design DNA and molecules and atoms and infinity and eternity. Who can stand against a being like this? So, it should be obvious even to the most simplistic person that there's a fight going on and this fight cannot be a battle based on force of might. It is a battle of ideas, ideologies. And in this battle somebody can stand against God.

00:04:24
 Because you can present contrary ideas, you can present lies as a part of your strategy. And so God's way of dealing with this kind of attack is that God uses truth. So, God's defense is revelation. God's defense is to reveal the truth about his character and his government because those are the things that were attacked. I I consider these truths to be self-evident. In other words, I don't think I have to go into too much I don't think I have to go to too many lengths to to prove this. It's It's

00:05:06
 self-evident. Now, as we look a little as we as we dig down a little more a little further, we see that the battle takes place in three stages. All right? Let me You will understand what I say when we look at them. Victory Remember the kind of battle we're looking at. We're looking at a battle that involved revelation. It involves God revealing truths. That's where the battle is taking place. And the the prize is is God's government and God's character. Now, this battle is taking place in

00:05:48
 three stages. Now, at each stage at each stage because because what we're looking at is God revealing truth. How do we know whether or not they they they the battle has been successful or not? We know because there's a judgment. There's a judgment at each stage. So, there are How many judgments are there then? That means if there are three stages, then there are three judge judgments, right? There are three judgments. Because there are three stages to this battle. And as you as you pass through each

00:06:30
 stage of the judgment, as you pass through each stage of the judgment, there is progress. There's progress in restoring God's kingdom. Remember the kingdom involves establishing God the truth about God's character and God's government. And the prize is the kingdom. This is what was attacked by Satan. So, judgment is a thing that establishes the progress. So, judgment is the key. Judgment is the key. Judgment Every time God's kingdom takes a step forward, it is because there has been judgment. Some judgment

00:07:17
 has taken place. All right. So, the first stage of the judgment, remember we said that there are three stages to the judgment, right? Number three, there are three stages. Stage number one. The first thing that happened was that Christ revealed God's character. Remember Satan attacked God's character? So, the first thing is to reveal the character of God. And after this happened, then there was a judgment. Does the Bible support this? Absolutely. Let me just quickly look at the verse in the Bible

00:07:58
 that highlights this. You go to the book of um You probably know where I'm going, but anyway, let's go there. You go to John chapter 12. And if you look at what it says in about Is it verse 31? Somewhere thereabouts. Yes. If you look at what it says in John 12 and verses 31 to 33, Jesus says, "Now is the judgment of this world." There it is, judgment, the first first judgment. "Now is the judgment of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out." The kingdom took one step

00:08:39
 forward. Satan was cast out of heaven. "And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me." This he said signifying what death he should die. So, the death of Jesus was judgment number one. When Jesus died, that was the revelation of God's character. Now, we know that when Jesus died, we know that humanity was saved. We know that reconciliation between God and men took place. But that is the secondary level of the primary level was what happened with the revelation of God's character.

00:09:20
 And because of that, it says that the world was judged. God's character being revealed resulted in the prince of this world, Satan, who had taken up government down here, he was kicked out of heaven. He, as the representative of earth of earth, representative of earth, was thrown out. And Jesus became our representative. So, that was the first step of the the battle. Judgment a judgment took place with the death of Christ. And Satan was put out of heaven. At the same time, or shortly thereafter, God's kingdom was

00:09:59
 established in men's hearts. And we see this of course all of this, Satan was expelled from heaven. And um just to give you the scriptural basis for this again, we go back to the Bible and we find that in um Revelation chapter 12. Revelation Revelation chapter 12 and verse 10. It says in verse 9, "And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the devil and Satan." That's what Jesus said would happen. "Now is the judgment of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast

00:10:34
 out." "The great dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the devil and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world." "He was cast out into the earth and his angels were cast out with him." "And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, 'Now is come salvation and strength.'" Now, at that time, and the kingdom of our God, the kingdom was established in the hearts of men. "And the power of his Christ for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them before our God

00:11:05
 day and night." So, God's kingdom was established and Satan was expelled from heaven. This is the first stage of the conflict and the focus was on God's character. Now, it was also the salvation of men. But remember that when the conflict started, there was no men to be saved. There was no sin on earth. So, we're looking at the the the the fundamental issues. It was God's kingdom, God's character, God's government. And so, even when Jesus died to save men, God's great love, God's character was

00:11:46
 revealed. And this was a part of the process which resulted in Satan being cast out of heaven. His lies about God were exposed. God's character was revealed. Stage two. Now, remember stage one focuses on on character. God is good. God is love. But the next stage goes beyond character and it focuses on government. What is the difference between government and character? Well, character means that you're a loving person, but it doesn't mean that you are smart. You don't have to be smart

00:12:29
 because you are loving. Satan Satan raised two objections to God. One is that his government is un- un- unreasonable. We looked at that this morning. He he attacked God's government and he attacked God's character. Now, Jesus proved that God's character is good, is perfect. But what about God's government? This is what has been taking place for the past 2,000 years. God's government needs needs citizens. God can only reveal his government through people. And that is why for 2,000 years

00:13:18
 the kingdom of God has been growing, has been building. Jesus has been building the kingdom of God. Because through this kingdom the wisdom of God, as we saw this morning Ephesians 3 and verse 10, the wisdom of God is to be made manifest by the church. In the kingdom, in the church, God's government, the beauty and the perfection of God's government is to be revealed to the universe. That's amazing and that's wonderful. To be honest, even though I've known it for so long, every time I think about it,

00:13:54
 I get a surgeon my bosom, I get a desire that I might be privileged to be a part of that revelation. That revelation of the goodness of of the wisdom of God. Remember, it's not talking about the love. Love is different from wisdom. At least on that basic definition. Love is God's affection, God's kindness, but wisdom is how he orders and makes everything work together to fulfill great purposes and the church is the vehicle, the vessel in which God will reveal the wisdom of God. So, reveals God's government in the church.

00:14:39
 Okay. Point number one. So, so remember what we said is that at every stage God's kingdom progresses because of judgment. So, we are focusing on government. So, this aspect of what is happening stage two, it involves the judgment of two kingdoms. The kingdom of Christ and the kingdom of the beast. Now, Jesus already revealed God's character, but now his government. So, to to to demonstrate God's wisdom, you have to look at the two kingdoms and see which of them which government is working better.

00:15:15
 So, you're going to judge the two kingdoms. Christ reveals God's government through the church. And to to to to have a uh uh uh uh an adequate judgment, a fair judgment, both kingdoms are perfected. When I say perfected, or when we say perfected, what we mean is that both of them are brought to their final place of development. So, by perfected, we means we mean development to the highest point. And that's why in Revelation, you see the 144,000, the highest level of development for the

00:15:53
 Kingdom of God, and you have the the Kingdom of the Beast and the mark of the Beast, the highest point of development for based on Satan's government. And then of course, at this point, the kingdoms are judged. At this point, you have the final examination of these kingdoms, which is what you see in Revelation 14 when it says, "Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come." And the consequence of it, of course, is that Christ takes over the kingdoms of this world.

00:16:32
 He becomes Lord of the kingdoms of this world. So, that is judgment number two. I don't think I have judgment number three here on my list, but I think all of us know all of us know that judge Let me before I go there. Judgment number three, all of us know that this judgment, the third judgment, is at the end of the thousand year. At the end of the thousand years, when the wicked come back to life, there's a great white throne, and everybody stands before that great white throne. And this is the final great act,

00:17:04
 when everything is brought before the eyes of every person who has ever lived, where I I suppose every intelligent person. Because you have some who are imbeciles from the were born. I don't know how God will deal with them, but every person that ever lived is there to see and to understand. And that's the last great judgment. Everything depends on judgment. So, that's the important point I wanted to make at the beginning this evening. You can't understand what is happening until you understand this concept of

00:17:35
 judgment. Judgment is the basis on which God's kingdom progresses. Judgment is the basis on which God's name is vindicated. God's truth goes forward because of judgment. So, while while this concept of judgment is greatly misunderstood, and even the concept of a pre-advent judgment, which we are looking at, it is denied by many. It is in fact very important to the to the building of the kingdom of Christ. So, in the book of Revelation, this is the outline that we have, and I think most

00:18:12
 of you you have seen this before. Revelation 1 to 3, you have the introduction and the letters to the churches from 4 to 11, you have the judgment of Christ's kingdom, and um 12 to 19 focuses on the judgment of the beast's kingdom, and then you have the concluding events from 20 to 22. We've been through this. Now, what we've been looking at over the past couple of weeks is the opening of the books. Jesus opens the books. And the opening of the books, we explained, is the judgment of the kingdom.

00:18:47
 This book represents the data concerning the kingdom of Christ. And what we have seen is that when this book is open, the consequences of the opening of this book is the is a is a glorification of the name of Christ and the glorification of our God in such a way that when the book is open, when Jesus takes the book, the entire universe, every living thing bursts out praising the Father and the Son. So, we know that the data whatever this book represents the data is of great importance where the universe is concerned. And you can

00:19:30
 understand because the judgment of the kingdom is the vindication of God's government. So, God's government means that God will take over the the the control of the universe for all eternity. As a matter of fact, this morning we looked at the verse. Let's look at it again quickly. This is what this event means. In 1 Corinthians 15 this is what the taking of the book will will will result in. It says um It says, "Then come at the end when he that is Jesus shall have delivered up the kingdom to

00:20:08
 God, even the Father. When he shall have put down all rule and all authority and power." That is not yet done. And he's not putting down all rule and authority and power by force of might. He's doing it by the revelation of God's ways. That is the key. Through revealing God's truth and through judgment, that is how Jesus will destroy Satan and his kingdom. For he must reign, Jesus, till he has put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. So, we know

00:20:45
 Jesus will rule until death and hell are cast into the lake of fire. So, when every enemy, including death and hell, are destroyed then Jesus will hand back the kingdom unto the Father. It says "And when all things shall be subdued unto him then shall the Son also himself be subject unto him that is God that put all things under him under him Jesus that God may be all in all. He's fighting the battles for his father. He's saying, "Father, I fight for you." And then at the end he

00:21:22
 says, "Father, I've done I've finished. Here is your kingdom back given back to you beautiful and pristine spotless with no enemies remaining to fight against you. That is the task of Jesus, God's battle ax and weapon of war." So, he's opening the book. And the book is a part of this process of judgment. The the the data that is con- contained in this book is the great evidence that will establish the kingdom of God forever. I can't I can't overemphasize that. I

00:21:59
 can't emphasize that too much. And this is why this is why I think that the study of the book of Revelation is so important. You know, all Christians should be understanding it because it it it is God at work today. It is God's work for today. What he has done in the past is magnificent, glorious, great, but his his greatness and his work did not stop. It continues. And what is happening today is maybe it's among the greatest of events in what God has accomplished from the beginning until now.

00:22:39
 So, understanding this is is vital. So, when he opens the books as we saw last week, the voice says, "Come and see." We saw that John is standing in heaven. And um he's taken into heaven to be given a view of the judgment. The judgment of the kingdoms. So, he describes what he sees there. And then he hears one of the living creatures say, "Come and see." I made the point that some versions of the Bible say, "Come." But the word come means that the the the living creature is calling

00:23:25
 the horse. But I believe come and see is the correct is a correct translation because what the living creature is doing is telling John and the 24 elders and all the angels to look look at this evidence because the whole point of this judgment is that it's an examination of data pertaining to the kingdom. The data that we'll see that we see will demonstrate the wisdom of God and the perfection of the government of God. So, there's a white horse that he sees and I and we made the point that

00:24:07
 a horse represents the people of God. In Zechariah 10 and verse 3, a horse is used to represent the the the tool that God uses in battle. He has made them He has made the house of Judah as his goodly horse in the battle. So, the voice says, "Come and see." The living creature says, "Come and see." And John sees and there's a white horse that rides across heaven. As a matter of fact, I would say that this white horse probably rides out of the book when Jesus flips the book of the seven seals.

00:24:48
 A white horse comes riding out of the book and flies across heaven. So, I made this point. I didn't have the picture last week, but what we're seeing is something like this. Just to make the it more clear. What we are seeing is that it's like heaven is is watching on a screen. This horse doesn't really actually exist in heaven. It doesn't actually exist anywhere. To to to to dramatize it, what happens is that everybody is sitting down to watch a movie. And so, when they look, they see on the

00:25:23
 screen a white horse riding. So, it's not something that is happening at the moment or that is happening. It is It is a record of something that happened. And what happened is dramatized and presented to us in the form of a horse with a rider. They are looking at it on a screen. So, what we have to do is take that horse. We take that horse and the rider and we try to understand what it What is God saying here? This image, what does it mean? So, it requires understanding absolutely because Revelation is written.

00:26:02
 Data is presented in images. That's the primary format of the Book of Revelation. Data is represented as images. So, you look at the images and you try to figure out what does this image represent. So, the suggestion here is that this image represents the Church of Christ. The Kingdom of God. But it represents a kingdom at a particular point in time, right? It goes through four stages. It goes through four horses. We see four stages at first. And we suggested that the first stage may be represented the the the

00:26:43
 the kingdom until about AD 100. The next stage was a red horse represented the kingdom till about AD 313. The next stage was a black horse represented the kingdom more or less still about 538 when the papacy was fully established. And then we said that the pale horse whose rider's name was death represented the kingdom of until about 1517 maybe even later than that. During the time of the heyday of the papacy, the time when the papacy reigned supreme represented by the the the public church

00:27:30
 the recognized church being a carrier of death and destruction. Now last week we came to number seal number five. And um we stopped at seal number five because this one will take a little bit of explaining. So let me go to the Bible. And um we'll read it in the Bible first before we look at any illustrations. But it's Revelation chapter six and um there were there were these first four horses. Then we come to number number five which is verse nine, Revelation six and verse nine. It says

00:28:16
 And when he had opened this fifth seal I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. And they cried with a loud voice saying How long, oh Lord, holy and true does thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? All right, so what we see here, seal number five, is that there is an altar in heaven, probably the altar of incense, and a strange a strange scene is presented to John. Under the altar there are souls.

00:29:06
 And who are they? They are the souls of martyrs. That's the souls of people that were killed because they upheld the word of God and because they witnessed to Jesus Christ for the testimony which they held. There are people under an altar and if you now remember what what I just said a little while ago, which is that God uses images, pictures. God uses pictures to represent the truth. And when you look at the pictures, many times, most of the time, the pictures look nothing like reality. They don't look like reality.

00:29:50
 But the the the idea of reality is behind the pictures and you have to look at the pictures and try to interpret them. And I mean, I know you all understand, but I I still want to give you a few examples. When you look at at a beast, it doesn't look anything like a kingdom. It's it it has nothing to do with a kingdom. A beast is an animal. So you look at the animal and you try to pick up what does God mean and you discover that a beast represents a kingdom. And then you can begin to to to try to

00:30:16
 find other meaning in the attributes of that beast. You look at a woman, a woman doesn't represent a a church, but it does. You look at a horse, it doesn't represent the kingdom, but it does. So you look at an altar in heaven, it's not an altar, it's there's not something made of gold or stones, but it represents something. And the dead people under the altar crying for vengeance. Again, it's not reality, but there's a lesson behind it. So, let's see if we can understand.

00:30:52
 Now, first of all, it says it is when he had opened the fifth seal. Now, up to this point, every time he opens a seal, you see a horse. Up to this point. Now, when he comes to number five, there there's no longer any horse. God is no longer presenting the history of the kingdom with horses. Why does God change the symbol? Why? All right. When you come to seal number five, there is a significant change that takes place. There's a great change that takes place in what is happening. That's why the

00:31:38
 symbol changes. Now, what is the change that takes place? Now, remember that remember that each seal represents a stage in the development of the church or of the kingdom, okay? When you come to seal number five, where are we in time? Where are we at this point in time? Let me see. How can I How can I illustrate it? Okay, let me go back to an earlier picture. All right, you remember this picture. The last time I used this illustration, I think it helped with people people's understanding. So,

00:32:20
 I'm going to go back to it. Now, let us say that the people the people sitting in this room in this picture, the people there with the popcorn and the little boy there watching the TV screen. Let us say we are at we are it's the people in this in this room. The people in this Zoom meeting right now. We're the ones sitting watching this screen. Okay? This is us. Now, what is happening on this screen? It's a documentary. And what is it talking about? This documentary is talking about

00:32:52
 the history of God's movement in the world. All right? Now, I want to make sure that you all understand what I'm saying. We're all sitting in this room and we're watching a a video presentation. And the presentation is a documentary of God's movement in the world. Where would it start? It probably would start with Adam and Eve, right? You're You're watching this video, it starts with Adam and Eve and it goes through Noah, it goes through Abraham, it goes through the Israelites coming out of Egypt, it

00:33:27
 goes through King David and um Solomon, it goes through the captivity in Babylon. And then it goes through the the birth of Jesus, it goes through the development of the apostolic age, it goes through the dark ages. It goes through the Reformation. At some point at some point, you're going to stop dealing with the past and you're going to come to the present. At some point we sitting down in this Zoom meeting watching the screen we are the people of God. We're going to see ourselves on the screen.

00:34:04
 Because it's going to come to our time in history. And so we are sitting there watching this documentary about the kingdom of God. And then we come to our place. And on the screen we're going to see ourselves and we're going to see ourselves sitting there watching the screen. And then it moves into the future and we see what will happen next year and the year after and so on right up to the coming of Jesus. Now, this is what is happening in heaven. They They They have been watching the

00:34:33
 past history on the screen and they are looking at the four horses. It's a movie. And actually at the time when John is in heaven, this movie didn't even start yet. But anyway, he's seeing the God is showing him the future. The future showing of this movie, right? He's taken into the future to see when the movie is being shown. Now, on the movie, it takes you to the history of the church from the development of the church until the reformation and after the reformation, then it comes to an event

00:35:02
 when things change. Something big is about to happen in the history of the kingdom. And what is it? It is the judgment. The judgment is a great changing point, the great turning point, because you know what has been happening. I think I have a picture depicting it. So, let me go to that picture depicting it. You know what has been happening, right? This is the the I hope you can see these images. These are the four horses. But if you notice that I have them in a downward a downward trajectory, because

00:35:40
 this is what happened. The kingdom started out with a white horse, conquering on to conquer. Then it became a red horse that took away peace from the earth. Then it became a black horse that was willing to sell the truth for a few for a penny. Then it became a pale horse being directed by death and hell. A a a an institution that was promoting death. And we saw that what happened is that the church or the kingdom was in a downward trajectory. The the judgment examining this, it has to be negative.

00:36:18
 The the the the statement that would defend God's kingdom cannot be be given. It's going downhill. And last week we explained why this is so. If you were not here last week, what we explained is that the reason for this downward trajectory is because they lost one great important principle. Now, if you were in the room last last week, I just don't want you to fall asleep on me or to to to get distracted. What was that great reason? Last week we said there's one great reason why the kingdom of Christ

00:36:55
 set up by Jesus started to go downhill. What was it? Can somebody just quickly remind me? >> Non-carnal. >> Thank you, brother Ian. It was because the church turned to human government. That is a lesson that must never ever be forgotten because it is always the cause of disaster. The apostolic church, as beautiful as it was, the the the the church reverted to human government. And I'll tell you something, the last church the last part of the kingdom will be free from that. And that is why the last

00:37:41
 when the kingdom finally emerges again in its true form, it will be free from human control. These will be will be people who follow the lamb, not people who follow human beings. So, this downward trajectory does not continue forever. However, because now we come to the place where you have the souls under the altar, and there is a change of direction. There's a change of direction. So, that is what we are seeing here because there's a change of direction, and because we have come to the point in

00:38:24
 time where it's crucial. Now, we are no longer just looking at history. We are in the middle of history taking place. I hope you get that point. The four horses represented the history of the kingdom in the past. From the point of view of the judgment, the four horses are in the past. But from the point of view of the judgment, seal number five takes you to the present. It's not in the past. It's It's It's It's history taking place before your eyes. And so, that is why we're not

00:38:57
 looking at a horse. Something is developing before our eyes. So, God changes the symbol. Now, what is this symbol? What do we see? These are the martyrs, and it says they are crying with a loud voice. And they are asking God, "How long before you judge and avenge our blood on those that dwell on the earth?" Why does God show us dead people crying out for vengeance? Two things, I believe. I believe number one, it is because he wants us to know that there has been a what seems like a long

00:39:42
 delay. It looks like a long delay. It looks like justice has been postponed for long. So, so the people who were killed as martyrs, the people who were serving God, and who were murdered for their faith, when is God going to make things right? When is God going to address this? So, when is a is a time that such a question would become relevant? It is in the time of the judgment, right? At the judgment now, this issue comes up. God, is this the time? And the the the the the necessity for this God presents it as though these people

00:40:23
 are crying for for vengeance, but of course you know they're not actually crying for vengeance bec- I beg your pardon. Dead people don't cry for vengeance. Dead people are not conscious. Some people believe this. We understand better. Dead people are sleeping. They're unconscious. They're not crying out for vengeance or anything. However, the story This morning sister Talia said she started reading Fox's Book of Martyrs. And um I've read through parts of that book myself.

00:40:56
 And it is inspiring, but it can be depressing, too. Because some of the horrific experiences those people had. People seeing their children slaughtered before their eyes, people being tortured horribly. Those cases are crying for vengeance. They're crying for justice. Now, God is simply using biblical terminology. You know that when um when Cain when Cain killed his brother and God said to him, "Where is your brother?" And Cain said, "Am I my brother's keeper? What do I know about him?" And then God

00:41:40
 says, "The blood of your brother is crying to me from the ground." The blood of your brother is crying. God is not saying that blood can cry. God is not saying that blood has a voice, but God is using we might call it poetic language. It's it's illustrative language. What God is saying is that the the deed that you did the deed that you did is before me. It's before me. It's it's it's it's burning itself into my mind in such a way that it's like somebody's crying.

00:42:13
 When somebody cries, it impacts your heart. When somebody cries, it impacts your mind. It has an effect on you. Now, nobody's crying, but the deed itself is impacting your mind. It's impacting your heart. It's stirring you up inside. So so the deed is crying out. So the death of Abel was crying to God. And that's the same kind of picture that >> Brother Tim. >> Yes, Brother Tim. >> And the equivalent of that is when in courts today they say the evidence is overwhelming.

00:42:43
 That's similar. >> Similar, Brother Tim. Yes, similar. Um So it's something similar here where God God graphically represents this by dead people crying out for vengeance. So there are some clues here that we are now at the point of the this pre-advent judgment. The same event in which you're examining the horses and the seals. It has now come come to the the judgment itself on the timeline. All right. So it says in verse 11, "And white robes were given unto every one of them.

00:43:25
 And it was said unto them that they should rest yet for a little season until their fellow servants also and their brethren that should be killed as they were should be fulfilled." So they're told that they are to rest for a little season. All right. So what does that tell us? That tells us that when these souls when this event begins when seal number five begins there is still a little season. It's not quite exactly time for vengeance to be taken for Jesus to return. There is still a little season.

00:44:08
 When the judgment begins, there is still a little season. And what is to be to happen in that little season? There are others who will be killed as they were. A very sobering thought, brothers and sisters. There are still Christians who will be killed in the crisis that is ahead of us if we accept what we see here. Now, here it says that white robes were given unto every one of them. I think all of us understands what this means. But again, I'm aware that maybe there are some of us who have never gone through

00:44:46
 this study before, and I'm going to emphasize and highlight what what we believe this means. Now, everybody everybody understands that when you become a Christian, you are covered with a robe of Christ's righteousness. That's what a white robe represents. You're covered with the robe of Christ's righteousness. So, that white robe is given to every Christian the moment you become a Christian. So, the question is, why is it that these people are given white robes hundreds of years after they are dead?

00:45:31
 What does this mean? This is one of the strongest evidences that we are looking at the pre-advent judgment. Now, of course, as as as as I just said, let us let us personalize it. Everybody in this room Everybody in this room is wearing a white robe, and that white robe is a righteousness of Christ, unless you are not a Christian, unless you have not accepted it. But if you have accepted the gift of Christ, then you are covered with that robe of righteousness. You are righteous in the eyes of God.

00:46:05
 These people under the altar when they died, they were already Christians. So, they were already covered with the robe of Christ's righteousness. They were already wearing white robes. But now it says at this point they are they are given a white robe again. God is trying to give us some data here, some information. And he's using this picture to give the information. So, we ask the question, how do you give dead people a robe of righteousness? How do you give people a a robe of righteousness long

00:46:39
 after they are dead? Because when a person is dead, nothing can change. Nothing can change. You can't change your character. You can't change God's opinion of you. You can't change what the books are saying. You can't change nothing. And yet there is something that can change. There's one thing that can change. And that is why that give us a big clue as to what is happening here. The only thing that can change about you when you are dead is your reputation. You know, one of the things that's that seems

00:47:17
 ridiculous to me, but maybe it makes a little more sense when I'm looking at this. You know what is is is stupid to me? After somebody is dead, they give them an award. All right? They call it a posthumous award. Posthumous recognition. Like there's there's a guy in Jamaica named There was a guy in Jamaica named Marcus Garvey. He's one of Jamaica's national heroes, okay? He was he was arrested in America. Um he was trying to he was trying to fight for, you know, liberation for black people.

00:47:54
 He was a black black person's advocates. He tried to get black people to go back to Africa and so on. Anyway, some earthly goals that maybe they don't mean too much to me as a as a Christian. But anyway, Marcus Garvey was arrested in in America and he has a criminal record in America. In Jamaica, he's a national hero. And one of the things that many Jamaicans, including the Jamaican government, is fighting for is for Marcus Garvey to be is for him to be the the criminal record to be taken off the record.

00:48:31
 Because they say he was unfairly arrested and so on. So, they want the American authorities to remove that criminal record for Marcus Garvey. Now, for me, it's vanity and foolishness. Marcus Garvey is dead how long ago? Long ago in the past century. Right? But, the Jamaican authorities want his name to be cleared, okay? So, you cannot change what he did. You cannot change the fact that he was in jail. You cannot change the fact that he was convicted. What you can change is his reputation. You can change his reputation. They're

00:49:09
 asking for a decision so that his reputation is changed that that there's no criminal record against his name. The These things mean a lot to people in the world. I don't They don't really mean much to me. So, this gives us an idea of how of what is happening with these souls under the altar. The only thing that can change, the only way they can get a white robe is the way that Marcus Garvey is looking for a white robe or they are looking for it for him. Give him a white robe. Clear his name. Clear the record.

00:49:36
 Close him in an aura of rightness. That is what God does for these souls under the altar. In heaven, it is demonstrated that the these people are righteous, pure. They had no There was no justification for them to to die as criminals, to be martyred and slaughtered. So, they are given white robes. Not that they are made righteous because they were righteous when they died. They were righteous in Christ, but that their names are cleared. And And this is what shows us that we are talking about the judgment.

00:50:17
 So, we are looking at the judgment. This These people They are recognized for who they are. Even though in the world, they died as criminals. So, this is why we know that this is focusing on the judgment. That's another indicator that tells us we are focusing on the judgment. All right. So, we come now So, seal number five is talking about the time of the judgment. And I want to tell you that Let me say that we are now in seal number five. This is where we are. All right. This is where we are. Seal

00:50:58
 number five. And I will show you why I am so confident that we are in seal number five. So, let's go to the Bible and it says It says, "And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal. And lo, there was a great earthquake. And the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon as blood. And the stars of heaven fell onto the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs when she is shaken of a mighty wind. And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together. And every mountain and island

00:51:41
 were moved out of their places. So, he opens the sixth seal. >> Twelve. >> Yeah, somebody's unmuted. He opened the sixth seal and first of all there's a great earthquake. And the sun become black as sackcloth of hair. And the moon becomes as a blood. And then the stars of heaven fell from the sky. Now, let me just um before we go any further, let me compare this with something that Jesus said in Matthew chapter 24. In Matthew 24, Jesus says in verse 29. I want you to look at what

00:52:33
 he says. He's talking about his coming. He says in verse 27, "For as the lightning cometh out of the east and shineth even unto the west, so shall also the coming of the Son of man be. For wheresoever the carcass is, there will the eagles be gathered together." "Immediately after the tribulation of those days shall the sun be darkened. And the moon shall not give her light. And the stars shall fall from heaven and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken. Then shall appear the sign of the Son of

00:53:11
 man in heaven. And then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn. And they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory." So, Jesus Jesus says that first of all there will be this great tribulation. And even though we know that this tribulation tribulation has had several several manifestations. But this great tribulation when you put it in the context of Revelation, it's the last great conflict that takes place at the time of the mark of the beast.

00:53:48
 This is the great tribulation. Jesus says, "Immediately after this, the sun will be darkened, the moon will not give light, the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken." So, he's describing exactly what we just looked at here in the book of Revelation. So, we are talking about something that happens after the great tribulation. When he opens the sixth seal, then the great tribulation is over. That's the point I'm trying to make. So, when does the great tribulation take place?

00:54:30
 It takes place during the last crisis relating to the mark of the beast, right? So, this is why this is why seal number five is where we are. We are at seal number five. We are in the point We are at the point where the judgment is taking place. And what is involved in this judgment is the perfecting of the church, it's the testing of the church, it's the it's the death of some of some of us. It's the great tribulation. It's the finalizing and sealing of the 144,000. And when that is over,

00:55:23
 then the next thing that happens is now you have this great earthquake. And you have these cosmic signs, the sun to darkness, the moon to blood, the stars falling. And then, if we continue reading, if we continue reading here in Revelation chapter 6, it says that um Let's just finish reading to the end of the chapter. So, it says he opens the sixth seal, there's this great earthquake, the stars fall. And then it says, "And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together.

00:55:57
 And every mountain and island were moved out of their places. And the kings of the earth and the great men and the rich men and the chief captains and the mighty men and every bondman and every free man hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains and said to the mountains and rocks, 'Fall on us and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of his wrath is come. And who shall be able to stand?'" So, what we see here, brothers and

00:56:29
 sisters, is that the- these signs, what what do what do these signs signify? It's a It's a collection of events. It's not just one sign. It's not like one happens and then you wait another 50 years and another one happens and you wait 100 years and another one happens. No, this this this is a a sequence of events that take place in rapid succession. Quickly, one behind the other because when it happens, everybody knows that the great day of God's wrath has arrived. The great day of God's wrath has

00:57:07
 arrived. That is what these signs signify. So, the opening of seal number six is marked by tremendous cosmic signs. I say cosmic signs because they are they are events taking place in nature and they affect the sun, the moon, the stars, the the the structure of the planet itself. Earth is breaking apart. As a matter of fact, whatever is happening is of such a dramatic nature, it says that even the sky seems to roll away. Like when a scroll is rolled together. And every mountain and island is moved out of their places.

00:57:49
 Now, somebody might say, "How do you know that these are literal events?" Well, I'll tell you. It's because when this happens, even the ungodly know that that that God's the day of God's wrath has arrived. Everybody is aware. When these things happen, they are of such a dramatic nature. You know how humanity is, right? Every disaster, they they make some plan and they try to work a way out of it and they explain it away in some um some physical way. They can explain what happened. The

00:58:25
 rocks got hot and ignited and created a forest fire or the tsunamis caused by this, that. But these events, these signify to humanity that the world is coming to an end. And even the ungodly are compelled to acknowledge that God is involved. And I suppose part of the reason is because these things have been prophesied. The sun black as sackcloth of hair, the moon like blood, the stars that has been widely prophesied all through the Bible. Jesus himself spoke of it. That's the second thing why we know that

00:59:04
 this is literal because Jesus described it. Joel described it. Isaiah describes it. Jeremiah describes it. Ezekiel describes it. The these same events. The falling of the stars, the moon to blood, the sun to darkness. It's expressed over and over in the Bible. Not just in in in in a book like Revelation where we can say that, you know, it's a it's a symbolic book. But it's expressed clearly even in books that are dealing with the prophecies in a literal sense. So this is why we know that this is

00:59:37
 literal. So so these things happen in rapid succession because All right, let me let me just let me just acknowledge that um you know, among the people who have spoken about this event most are are Seventh-day Adventists, okay? And what Adventists say is that the great earthquake was Lisbon earthquake in 1755. Then they say that in 1780 there was what they called the dark day. And during this dark day over a part of the United States, mark that, it was a part of the United States for some reason that they

01:00:17
 they were not able to discover. The day became black. They say it was black as night. It was It I think it was in New England. It was not over all of America, it was not over the whole world, it was just over a part of the United States. And they say that that night when the sun when the moon appeared it was red like blood. So they say that that was a second event fulfilled. And then in 1833, which was like 50-something years later you had what was called the the Leonid meteorite shower. A meteorite shower

01:00:57
 that comes back every every few years. It comes back, but it was a point of very strong in 1833. And um they saw that as a fulfillment of the falling of the stars. Now from 1755 the next event was was 1780, that was what, 25 years later. And then the supposed falling of the stars was 50 something years later. This is not what the Bible is talking about because it says the next thing that happens is that the heavens depart like a scroll when it is rolled together. 1833 until 2026 is how long. It's nearly 200 years.

01:01:43
 And the next event has not happened yet. This is absolutely not what the Bible is talking about. It is talking about events that take place in nature in such rapid succession that everybody knows this is the end. 1755 did anybody think it was the the great day of God's wrath in 1755? If they thought so, they are long dead, buried, and gone. Anybody who thought it was the day of God's wrath in 1780 or 1833, long dead and gone. Those events have faded into into the the the mist of history.

01:02:19
 And still the great day of God's wrath has not come. Still the heavens have not yet departed as a scroll and the mountains and islands have not yet moved. So, what I'm doing is I'm discounting those events in the past. I'm discounting them as the fulfillment of the prophecy. They might have been an encouragement to the brethren who lived back in 1844. It was an encouragement to them, but it definitely I do not believe that this was the fulfillment of the prophecy because when these things happened, the Bible is

01:02:53
 clear. It means that the great day of God's wrath has arrived. And you know what is the great day of God's wrath. And if you don't know, let's look quickly and remind ourselves. It says the great day of his wrath is come. And who shall be able to stand? And um let me just use the right panel so I don't have to skip back and forth. If you go to Revelation chapter 15, you will see what this means. In verse 1 it says, "And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous,

01:03:30
 seven angels having the seven last plagues. For in them is filled up the wrath of God." The wrath of God, "The great day of his wrath The great day of his wrath is come, and who shall be able to stand?" That's what the question means. When the sixth seal is opened, when the sixth seal is opened, we have come to the time when the plagues are about to be poured out. That is where the wrath of God is filled up. And the sign the sign that indicates that we have come to this time is that there's a

01:04:08
 great earthquake, and these signs take place in the heavens. And the heavens seem to roll away like a scroll. This is a sign that the seven plagues are about to begin. All right, so this brings us to the end of chapter six, and it brings us to the end of Well, we're not quite at the end of seal number six. We're going to go back to seal number six. This This This is the description of seal number six. Yeah, it's the end of seal number six. I'm sorry. But there's something that happens before seal

01:04:42
 number six, which we will look at next week. But God gives us seal number one to seal number six in a sequence, so we can understand how things develop. But there's something we need to look at which takes place under seal number five, because remember I said we are presently at seal number five. And we're not finished with seal number five yet, even though we look at seal number six. All right. So, that's where we're going to stop for this evening. What we will do is pause and take questions. Brother Ray, go

01:05:17
 ahead. >> Yes, Brother David, do you hear me? >> Hearing you, Brother Ray. >> Okay, thank you for the study. I have a question. Um So, we are in C on number five. Okay. Okay, I understand it cuz it's many of things happening that's explained there. Would this include um the change of times, laws, and times and times that the Bible talks about? Cuz I believe that we are that's also coming into place with uh new legislation that uh that one year celebration of this uh

01:06:04
 of the Jewish Sabbath is being it's going to be honored once a year, and then I believe then something else will happen after that. Does the Sabbath include this? >> Um my my my my own opinion, Brother Ray, is that this is not what it was talking about in Daniel 7. When it says that they the horn will think to change times and laws. I don't think it is something that has to do with our time. I think it was something that had to do during the Dark Ages. Probably had to do with the change of the

01:06:36
 Sabbath, you know. So, um that is something that happened in the in history. But I don't >> not looking So, we're not looking for any future events concerning the change of laws and times then. >> I don't think so. >> Probably before uh um C on number six. Okay, thank >> Yeah. It's my opinion. Somebody else may have a different perspective, but I don't think so because I don't think the changing of times and laws has anything to do with our our the crisis that is coming. Okay, I

01:07:08
 don't think so. All right, but thank you for the question. >> Is there anybody else there? I just want to so so I'm going to add on to this. So, what do you what do you think would be uh the climate change into uh seal number six that what do you think will will come um as as a sign for people to understand this prophecy? Is it homosexuality? Is it atheism? What do you think it is? Um when it when it says that when when it it says that the heavens depart as a scroll when it is rolled together, something

01:07:54
 terrific is happening in the cosmos, okay? Now, I can allow my imagination to run away. I can speculate, which is probably not a wise thing to do. But, um sometimes when you look at things like this this kind of description, the heavens depart as a scroll when it is rolled together. You know what you think about? You think about atomic explosions. The only thing that we know of in human experience that can cause this kind of appearance like the sky itself is rolling away is some kind of tremendous

01:08:27
 explosion like like a huge atomic explosion. So, so I don't know. I don't know what will happen to cause this effect like the falling of the stars, the sun turned to darkness. I don't know what will happen to cause it. I I have a It's only suspicion and speculation, which is not the smartest thing. But, but it could be that the way men experiment with with with the weather, the way they experiment with weapons maybe the cause of some disaster on the earth, maybe. But that is speculation because I don't

01:09:08
 know. I mean, from time to time they come up with something that like there's some asteroid that is heading towards the earth. And of course, it always is it moves away or passes away. Nothing can happen before God permits it to happen. But it can very well be that something happens in the cosmos that affects earth. You know, during the time of the flood, I am convinced that um the earth moved out of orbit. I'm convinced that something happened to shake the earth out of orbit. That is what caused all these tremendous

01:09:42
 earthquakes and caused all this water. Something something bigger than this planet happened during the flood. And I believe something like that will happen again uh at the end of time. If you If you look at um there's a description that God gives us in Isaiah 25. Let me just look at it quickly. Isaiah 24. And um you know, it really seems to me like some tremendous event will happen in nature. It says, "The Lord maketh the earth empty and maketh it waste and turneth it upside down and scattereth abroad the inhabitants

01:10:18
 thereof." It says the earth will be turned upside down. Now, you know that that is literally if the earth moves the earth is sitting on angle. For those of you who don't believe in a flat earth. You believe the earth the earth is rotating at an angle. That is so precise. If it moves out of that that that that that tangent for even a little bit, tremendous forces are unleashed upon the earth. Hurricane, tidal waves, earthquakes. If it just moves like for example, 20°. The whole earth will be will be under

01:10:58
 tremendous disaster. But here it says that the Lord will turn it upside down. And if you read a little further on, it says It says Let me see what verse am I looking for. Yeah, in verse 19. Let me read from verse 18. As a matter of what verse 17. Fear and the pit and the snare are upon thee, oh inhabitant of the earth. And it shall come to pass that he who fleeth from the noise of the fear shall fall into the pit, and he that cometh up out of the midst of the pit shall be taken in the snare. It describes it like how

01:11:46
 the flood was described. For the windows from on high are open and the foundations of the earth do shake. The earth is utterly broken down, the earth is clean dissolved, the earth is moved exceedingly. The earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard and shall be removed like a cottage. And the transgression thereof shall be heavy upon it and it shall fall and not rise again. So, it says the earth is going to bounce from side to side like a drunken person. And it even talks about um the the people on earth they shall be

01:12:23
 gathered together as prisoners are gathered in the in the pit. People will die and they shall be shut up in the prison prisoners of death. After many days they shall be visited. And it even mentions then the moon shall be confounded and the sun shall be ashamed. You know, so so just uh okay, I'm sorry. I didn't realize I wasn't even showing my Bible. But I guess everybody um you you you know those verses. So, it suggests that there will be a complete overturning of the the earth out of its orbit.

01:13:00
 And um so there will be something tremendous happening happening. You know, bigger than the we have ever seen except maybe back in the days of Noah's flood. >> Hi brother Clayton. >> Yes, brother Clayton. >> You know, I've been watching uh uh uh I forget his name it's Stefan or something like that. Anyways, he he uh has a deal where he's watching the sun and stuff and we've been having a lot of plasma burst, you know, from the sun here the last year or so. Uh

01:13:38
 and they they can almost every time it happens it seems like a few days later there's some major earthquakes in different places of the earth, you know, because all the energy from that plasma is coming to the earth. If if it shoots off towards the earth, it can shoot off, you know, on the sides or whatever but or on the backside. Uh well, even even one of them shot off on the backside of the sun and there was a major earthquake just last week or something like that in South America. Mhm. Uh at the same time that that burst

01:14:13
 was going off. So, it's pretty interesting to see that, you know, with all the the earthquakes we've been having the major earthquakes and the volcanoes and stuff and and and the land splitting in different places. We we can tell that we're close, I think. >> Mhm. Um I know that I know that from the time of Noah's flood the earth suffered a terrific upheaval and it has never recovered. From the days of Noah until today the earth has been in a condition of decline. It will never recover until God

01:14:51
 creates the new earth. So so the world is is surviving because God has has protected the world. He has put a a shield around it. But little by little it is deteriorating. It's going down. More earthquakes uh nature itself is being degraded and everything will come to a climax during the time of the seven last plagues. The earth is going to be it's going to be on its death throes. It is the last legs in the time of the seven last plagues. And the only reason why we will survive is is because Jesus is coming to rescue

01:15:22
 us. He's coming to take us out of it for a while. And the next time we come back he's going to create a new earth. So that is my belief. The the the reason why we see these tornadoes and the hurricanes increasing and earthquakes and so on is because the vital force that keeps the earth going is is breaking down. It's dying. The surface of the earth is gradually being broken up by these earthquakes and in the time of the plagues everything is going to fall apart. Finally. So this is what I I I can see.

01:15:55
 All right. So I think that brings us to the end for this evening. Thank you all for for joining me. Next week we will uh be looking more at seal number five which will also involve the sealing of the 144,000. Let's pray before we close off.

