00:00:01
 Last week, we were on the subject of the 144,000. I know that for many of us, this is something we have we have looked at several times, and for many of us, it's a topic that we are very familiar with. But, one thing I've learned is that as we go back over these truths again and again, as I've said many times, we always gain new insight. God is blessing us. God is continuing to show us things that help us to have a better appreciation of what we're looking at. And more than that,

00:00:40
 I think the most important thing to motivate us to become more involved in the cause of God and to endeavor to be what God wants us to be. So, as you know, we always use the um we always use the slides. So, I'm going to use the slides and do a quick review of what we looked at last week. Just a quick review, I promise. And then we'll move from there into this evening's presentation. So, um among the things that we we saw last week was that >> [music] >> the 144,000 was sealed while the

00:01:26
 winds were being held by the four angels. An angel comes from the east with the seal of the living God, and he seals he's set to seal people from the tribes of Israel. The sealing takes place under seal number five, because seal number six is the day of God's wrath. So, the 144,000 is sealed under seal number five. We then highlighted that a seal is a mark of God's approval, a statement that says, "This is complete and has my approval and nothing is to interfere with it from this point

00:02:01
 forward. We pointed out that this sealing revelation is not the seal of the Holy Spirit because all of God's children already have the heal the seal of the Holy Spirit. But from among those children of God you have the 144,000 sealed. So this seal is a different kind of seal. And I think I especially pointed out I believe that this seal is the manifestation of brotherly love. We don't have time to look at that again this evening. So I also pointed out that this number is I'm fully convinced it's not a

00:02:35
 literal number. And um so this 144,000 the number is a symbolic number. And I believe they they it represents the kingdom of God perfected. 12 12s 144. 12 is the kingdom number. 12 12s 144. It's a signa- it's a uh signification, an indication that the kingdom is perfected. That is who the 144,000 are. So we made the point that the church in these seven seals the church is represented as going downhill. But at the time of the judgment it turns around and then it goes straight up to the top

00:03:16
 where the church is perfected. The downward journey is is halted. Things turn in that direction and we go to a place where the church has never been before in terms of purity and holiness. Then we saw that John saw this great multitude. And the point that I made was that the great multitude is the same same group as the 144,000. And I used the example of um John heard just like in Revelation 5 he heard about a lion. When he looked he saw a lamb. Same thing in Revelation here. He hears about people from the tribe of Israel,

00:03:59
 but when he looks, he sees people from all nations. What I said here is that this group of people was an illustration. Here are people who are all Christians, but they are literally from different nations, different races. So, spiritually, these people are all from the from Israel, from the tribes of Israel. Spiritually, they are Israel. That's what the New Testament teaches. If you are Christ, then we belong to to the true Israel of God. So, these people are all from the nation of Israel, but physically,

00:04:32
 they are from many different races and nations. So, this is what John did. John heard the number. John never saw the 144,000. He only heard the number. And when he looked, he saw this great crowd of people, this great multitude, which represents people from every tribe and nation, but they are all Israel spiritually. So, when you hear, they are Israel, but when you see, they are from every nation. This is what we looked at last week, and then now from there, I said we came to the end of that section of Revelation 7,

00:05:09
 but there was more that I needed to look at this week. And so, um, I'm going to finish the chapter before we move on. So, that's where we stopped last week, Revelation 7. And then, it says, let's stop with that verse. Verse 9 says, "After this, after he hears the number, he looks and he sees this great multitude that's standing before the throne and before Jesus, before the lamb. And they are clothed with white robes. They are wearing Bring it down a bit. You're stuck on the

00:05:49
 picture with the multiple >> picture with the multiple races. >> Uh All right, let me try again. I know this happened once before. I don't know why. Can you see my Bible now? All right. So, it says here in Revelation 7, verse 9, that this great multitude that no man could number, last week I pointed out that this is John's description. It says they are wearing white robes. And they have palm branches in their hands. Now, I'm going to ask a question that I don't want I don't know if anybody

00:06:42
 No, don't answer. Don't answer. But I'm going to ask a question because I want you to think about what I'm I'm saying. According to the Bible, what kind of clothing was the 144,000 wearing in Revelation 7 here, according to the Bible? What kind of clothing was the 144,000 wearing? Now, I asked you not to answer, so I don't expect you to answer, but I asked a question. Because there are some people who will say they were wearing white robes. And I will say, go back and read Revelation 7, and

00:07:23
 you'll find that you can't tell what kind of robes they are wearing because John didn't see them. John never saw this when the angel says, "Seal 144,000." The angel never told John what kind of clothes they were wearing. So, the only people that John saw and he knew what kind of clothes they were wearing is the people standing before the throne, the great multitude. Now, we believe that it's the same group of people. So, of course, the 144,000 must have been wearing white robes because it's

00:08:01
 the same group of people, right? But but I'm asking the question specifically because I'm going to prove something. I want to prove something. And to prove what I'm going to prove, I need you to recognize that John when he heard about the 144,000, he had no clue what kind of robes they were wearing. He had no clue. The only people he he knew about who were wearing any robes was the great multitude before the throne. All right, I hope everybody understands the point I'm making. Because the next point I want to make

00:08:35
 now is that it says in verse 13, "And one of the elders answered saying unto me, What are these which are arrayed in white robes? And where did they come from? Whence came they? Who are these wearing white robes? And where did they come from?" So, somebody answer me quickly. Who is the elder asking about? Just answer quickly because the answer is obvious, but I just want to know that you're with me. >> 144,000 >> The multitude that John saw. >> He's asking about the multitude that

00:09:14
 John saw standing before the throne. >> Okay. >> Yes. So, this is not an inquiry about those that he heard. It's an inquiry about those that he saw. Now, remember before we go any further, the subject of the chapter is the question, "Who will be able to stand?" You remember this, right? At the end of chapter 6, the question was, "The great day of his wrath has come, and who shall be able to stand?" Chapter 7 is answering this question. Everybody in chapter 7 will be able to stand

00:09:51
 in the great day of God's wrath. And so far in chapter 7 there are two groups that are brought to view. And I'm dwelling on this point because most people believe it is two different groups. Most people believe it is two different groups. I am saying, and I'm trying to prove to you that both groups is the same group. It's just two different views of the same group. Right? It's like you're looking at me from the back of my head, and then you're looking at me from the front of my head.

00:10:22
 You say two different people people, but it's the same person. But there's two different views, right? That's what we see in Revelation 7. So, this is what I'm I'm I'm still trying to get firmly established in our minds. And I'm doing this because it's a it's a it's a subject of contention. People argue about it. And I am strongly persuaded it's not two different groups. It's the same group described in two different ways. One description is a spiritual description, the other

00:10:55
 one is a physical description. So, the question is, "Who are these in white robes?" And as Brother Eion pointed out, it's referring to the great crowd. That description of the great crowd, that's what it's focused on. Before going further, Sister Talia. You need to unmute Sister Talia. I can't hear a word. All right, maybe she's having a problem because I see their hand up. And um I am not >> Can you hear me now? >> Now I'm hearing you. Please go ahead,

00:11:38
 sister Talia. But you're very low. Sister Talia? You're muted again. All right, I'm going to go ahead because something needs sorting out there. You're muted now. Yeah, you keep re-muting. So, maybe you need to restart, sister Talia. But let me continue until you get that worked out because I don't want to have everybody in suspense. Now, verse 14. So, John is asked a question, "These that are wearing white robes." And specifically from it mentioning white robes, you know

00:12:26
 who it's talking about. "Where did they come from?" "I said unto him, 'Sir, you know.'" In other words, I don't know. This is not a question for me. This is a question for you. And And you see again God's way of teaching. First of all, God asked the question. God knows the answer. God asked the question. He He has one of the elders asking the question, "Who are these? Where did they come from?" And John doesn't know, of course, and God knows that John doesn't know. But he

00:12:59
 asked the question to provoke John's mind and to provoke your mind and my mind. So, John says, "Sir, you know." And he said unto me, "These are they which came out of great tribulation and have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb." Now, if you look at the right panel, if you look at the right panel, let's read it in the NASB. And every other version, let me see, the literal translation Literal translation, let me read this one. And I have said to him, "Sir, thou hast

00:13:35
 known." Literal translation. And he said to me, "These are those who are coming out of the great tribulation." The reason why I read it is I wanted to see the word the. Every translation has the the great tribulation. Every one of them except the King James version. I know that a lot of of people they will not use any version but the King James version, but there are some places where the King James version does get it wrong for some reason. And I have to be honest and point out those places, and this is one of them.

00:14:16
 Because if you go to the Greek text, if you go to the interlinear translation, if you go to the Greek translation from which the King James version came, you will find that the word the is there. It's not something that was just added in in some translations. It's actually in the Greek text from which you get the King James version. So, for some reason they they translators just left out the word the. Which changes the meaning. Now, look at the the the the way it is in the King James version.

00:14:52
 These are they which have come out of great tribulation. Great tribulation there means any trouble. You could say that God's people from the time of Abel have been suffering tribulation. So, when the verse says, "These are they that came out of great tribulation," it could mean all the Christians from all ages. Right? Because all Christians, like Paul says, "All that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. So, you could say that all Christians have suffered tribulation.

00:15:33
 And you could think about some who suffered greater tribulation like in the Dark Ages, like when Nero the emperor Nero dipped them in oil and used them to light his garden at night. And all through the ages, you know, it is said that Isaiah was put in a in a hollow hollow tree trunk and cut in two. Jeremiah was thrown into a pit by by the the king into a pit where he sank up to his waist and was fed on bread and water. They almost starved him to death. This is talked about. Zacharias the son of Barachias whom they they stoned

00:16:07
 between the porch and the altar. God's people have always suffered tribulation. So, when you say these have come out of great tribulation, it does not pinpoint who they are. But when you say the great tribulation, when you say they came out of the great tribulation, now you are being specific. You are talking about a particular point in time. And if you if you look at the Bible, let me go quickly to um Well, instead of I probably should go. Instead of just quoting, let me go, right? If you look at um

00:16:49
 Daniel 12. Daniel 12, verse 1. Look at what it says. And at that time shall Michael stand up. The great prince which standeth for the children of thy people. And there shall be a time of trouble such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time. And at that time thy people shall be delivered, everyone that shall be found written in the book. So, Daniel speaks about a time of trouble. A time of trouble such as never was since the beginning of time. And what time is this? This is just

00:17:30
 before God's people are delivered because it says at that time your people shall be delivered. Everyone that shall be found written in the book. And to show you what that means, it says, "Many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake some to everlasting life and some to shame and everlasting contempt." They're talking about the coming of Jesus. Just before the coming of Jesus, there shall be a time of trouble such as never was since there was a nation. You find that Jesus also

00:17:57
 speaks about this time. If you look at um Matthew chapter 24. It says in verse 21, "Then shall be great tribulation such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time, no nor ever shall be." And he goes on to talk about there will arise false Christs and false prophets and so on. And he says, "If they say to you, behold he's in the desert, do not go. Behold he's in in the secret chambers, do not believe it." Then look at what he says in verse 29. "Immediately after the tribulation of

00:18:45
 those days shall the sun be darkened and the moon shall not give her light. And the stars shall fall from heaven and the powers of the heaven shall be shaken." Look at this verse, brothers and sisters. The sun will be darkened. The moon will not give light and the stars will fall from heaven. And the powers of the heaven shall be shaken. Somebody just unmute and tell me quickly or write in the chat. Where did you find this? In our studies in Revelation, where do you find this? Somebody just tell me quickly.

00:19:26
 >> It's seven. >> All right, if you say seven, you're on the wrong pathway, brother Ian. I know what you mean to say, but you Okay. It It's It's It's It's Say that's it. Yes, brother Jimmy. >> It's six. >> It's seal. It's seal number six. Remember? When you had to open the sixth seal, there was a great earthquake. The moon became black as the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, the moon became like blood, and the stars fell. And the powers of heaven were shaken.

00:20:01
 The heavens departed like a scroll. Now, when does this this happen? Look at what Jesus says. It is immediately after the tribulation of those days. So, the great tribulation is to take place the great tribulation is to take place just before seal number six. And we know that the great tribulation is seal number five. It is during the time of the judgment. Seal number five. That is when the great tribulation will take place. So, these people that John sees standing before the throne, these are the ones who have come out of

00:20:38
 the great tribulation. So, the King James version left out that very important word there. The great tribulation. Where you see that little green mark? The word the should be there. And because it isn't there, because it isn't there, it changes the meaning of the verse. So, once you understand that the word the is supposed to be there, then you know that these people are the ones who will come out of that great time of trouble. They will pass through this falling of the stars, the moon to dark to blood,

00:21:15
 the sun to darkness, and they will move over into the next seal, [snorts] seal number seven. But here in Revelation 7, John is is given a view of them. They are the ones who will stand. Remember the question. Let me remind you of the question at the end of chapter six. Remember the question. The great day of his wrath has come, and who shall be able to stand? If you go back to um Matthew 24. Let's try to tie it together with what Jesus says. Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun shall be darkened,

00:22:01
 the moon will not give light, the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of heavens will be shaken. What takes place immediately after that? Now, if you look at Matthew, it says "Then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven." But based on Revelation, somebody tells me, "What happens before the sign of the Son of Man appears in heaven?" >> The sealing. >> Well, the sealing has to take place before because the tribulation, remember, immediately after after the

00:22:32
 tribulation of those days, the sun shall be darkened, the moon becomes blood, the stars fall. Then something happens, then Jesus comes. >> Seven last plagues. >> Thank you, Sister Susan. It's the seven last plagues, right? So, you are matching Revelation with Matthew 20 24. Matthew 24 does not mention the seven plagues. Matthew 24 does not mention the seven plagues. Jesus says, "After the tribulation, then the sign of man will appear in the heaven." But Revelation gives you more details.

00:23:07
 Revelation says, "The sun to darkness, the moon to blood, the stars fall." Then the day of God's wrath has come, the seven plagues, and then after that Jesus comes. So, Revelation is talking about the same thing, but it's giving you details, helping you to fit the pieces together. So, as we are looking at the 144,000, as we are looking at these these people in white robes in chapter seven now, we are looking at the people who passed through that great tribulation. These are the ones who are sealed. These are

00:23:41
 the ones who will stand in the great day of God's wrath. And of course, it's God is kind of giving us a preview a preview because they are of course they are not in heaven. Of course, they are not in heaven, but God is showing us them standing before the throne of God because in point of privilege, that's where they are, but it's also a preview of where they will be in the at the end of time. So, he says, "These people who you see standing before the throne, they are the ones who

00:24:13
 have come out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the lamb." So, >> [snorts] >> this is this is something I find really interesting. Let me show you why this is interesting. And I think I think most of us are familiar with this anyway, but let me repeat what I said earlier on. If you look at um go back to Revelation chapter five. Revelation chapter six. Look at Revelation chapter six. It says in verse nine. Look in the right panel. When he had

00:24:56
 opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those that were slain for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. And they cried, saying, "O Lord, how long before you you judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?" And it says, "White robes were given unto every one of them. And they were told that they should rest yet for a little season until their fellow servants also their brethren that should be killed as they were should be fulfilled." Now, these brethren

00:25:30
 who will be killed, these are the ones who are going to die in the great tribulation. Some are going to die in the great tribulation. Remember this time of the judgment, it represents the time of the great tribulation. After this, it says, "I beheld and there was a great earthquake. The sun became black as sackcloth of hair and the moon became as blood." This is the mark that the great tribulation comes to an end and probation closes. There's no more grace. And we open we're about to start the

00:26:02
 seven last plagues. But just before that, some some of God's people are to be killed. So, those are the ones who go through the great tribulation who die in the great tribulation. But some pass through it. And those who pass through it, they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. At the same time, during this time of the judgment, those that are already dead, white robes are given unto every one of them. Notice both these groups of Christians, those who are dead

00:26:41
 and those who are alive, those who don't die, both groups obtain white robes. Both of them have white robes. But the way they obtain those robes is different. Now, for those who are already dead, it says that the white robes are given unto them. And for those who are living, it says that they wash their robes and make them white. They are involved in the process of the whitening of their robes. Now, I have to say this. I have to remind everybody of this, okay? Let me look at you while I'm while I'm

00:27:22
 saying this. I see I see the I see some hands up. I'll come to you in a moment. When when Christians, when you become Christians, Sister Helena, Sister Lorena, Brother Kip, and anybody else who's in the room, when you became a Christian, you received a white robe of righteousness. This is not what Revelation is talking about. Every Christian has that white robe. That right white robe is your status before God. But there are two things you have to consider. Two things. In the eyes of God, you don't need a

00:27:56
 judgment cuz God knows all things. In the eyes of God, you accept Christ, you're already righteous, okay? But Revelation is about the judgment, and in Revelation, what God is doing is not a matter of God's private knowledge. No. If God's private knowledge was was a thing that was involved, there would be no judgment, no time at all. Not at the end of the thousand years. There's no need for any new judgment if God is the only one involved. You know this. Revelation is talking about

00:28:27
 public judgment, God's justice being put on display. So, the people under the altar who get the white robes, this is the judgment. In the judgment, it is seen that they are righteous. So, they are given white robes. That's what it means. Not just that they are righteous in the eyes of God, but they are righteous in the eyes of the judgement. In the same way the living Christians, the 144,000 now we already have a white robe in the eyes of God, but in the eyes of the judgement we need a white robe also in the eyes of

00:29:01
 the judgement. How are you being judged? You are judged by your character. So, God's people who go through that final test, that final trial, that great tribulation, their characters will be put through the fire. And not only with their will their characters be purified but their characters will also be examined and so they will receive the white robe of a public righteous display. Publicly the judgement will see that you are righteous and so you have a you also have a a white [clears throat] robe in this second

00:29:38
 sense. I hope everybody can understand what I'm saying. Let me go back to my screen. Uh before I go to the screen, let me take Tony or sister Debbie, whichever. And I see sister Tanya is on the still up, so let me come to her afterwards. Brother Tony. >> Okay. Um the seven last plagues come after the seven seals, right? >> No, brother Tony, after the six. >> Six seals, right, right. >> Yes. >> Now, where does the mark of the beast fit in there? Is that right before the

00:30:09
 seven last plagues? >> Seal number five is the mark of the beast, the great tribulation. Where we are where we are right now. >> So, that's when it's going to be enforced. >> Yes, brother Tony, sometime in that period. It's a period that takes in sometime. It's not one day, it's not a few days. It's a period of time, a short period, but still a period that may take in a few years and we are in that period now, I fully believe. >> Okay, thank you. >> Okay, brother Tony.

00:30:46
 Brother Ian, go ahead. >> Yeah, um so based on what we are seeing here, it seems clear that the souls under the altar, even though they have faced the tribulation, they're not sealed. They're separate. They're not sealed, but um so the question here is they they stood up until their their love not that their lives because they this they were killed. Yes, they were they were martyred, so they were they were killed. So, how different is it I I just giving you a question that maybe will help to make it clear.

00:31:28
 But the question is how different are they in their character at this stage to the 144,000 who have received the seal and have washed their robes in that they they love not not their lives unto death either because that's what is said of the 140 of the great multitude. They love not their lives unto death. But here is a here is a group of people who have actually experienced death not loving their lives unto death and have experienced it, you know. >> Go ahead. >> Yeah. >> Yeah, it's a good question.

00:32:00
 >> Yes. >> It's a good question and an important question because the question is if the 144,000 have these white robes. These white robes as we are looking at it, it is a mark of being perfect in the eyes of the judgment, right? It's a mark of having your character perfected. Now, it happens to these when they are dead. They are examined and they are given white robes, meaning that they are they are fit for eternity. Their characters stand up to the test, to the display, right? But it happens when they

00:32:34
 are dead. With the 144,000, it while they're alive. So, what we have to understand is that I I think all of us understand this. We should. That being saved does not mean that you are perfect. It's very important. We're not saved because we are perfect. We're saved because because of the grace of God and our faith in Christ. Why then is the 144,000 perfect? Why do Why has God made the 144,000 perfect? It is not in order to save them. The people who died are just as saved, just as much saved, even though they

00:33:13
 never reached that same place of character perfection, but they are just as equally saved. So, the the the perfection is not about salvation. The perfection is about God putting his kingdom on display. It's about God saying to Satan and saying to the universe, "This is what the grace of Jesus is able to do." Not to save them, but to glorify the name of God and to and to exalt the grace of God in in Christ. So, those who died, they were they were faithful, they were loyal, they were committed.

00:33:49
 So, they are they are just as saved as I said, but the 144,000, God does something special. Sins are blotted out in the past to our situation in which it says that their robes are washed. And to be honest, when you think about it, it's wonderful and it's terrifying. Because it's it's a to to to to have your character purified by a great tribulation. It's a thrilling prospect, but it's not going to be nice. And sometimes I pray to God that we are saying, "Lord, I know that

00:34:26
 I know that trial makes me a better person. Isn't there some way you can make me better without a trial?" >> [laughter] >> Sometimes I ask that. Can you make me better without a trial? I would like to be better without a trial. And it's like I got it's like God is saying, "You're asking to be not a human." Because for a human being one of the tools that make us better, one of the tools that cement lessons in our mind is trial. You realize say you're you

00:34:53
 realize that you will say "I'm going to be more focused tomorrow. I'm going to think about the Lord more." You You know what? You don't do it. But you know what they say in Jamaica? When trouble when trouble take man, pickney shirt fit him. And it means that when you get into trouble even the child of a little even a shirt of a little baby will fit you. In other words, you you find any way to find a way to solve the problem when you get into trouble. And when you get into trouble

00:35:24
 you don't stop praying. You don't stop focusing on the Lord. You don't stop thinking about the Lord. You call everybody and ask them pray for me, please. Trouble draws you to the Lord, but in peace and safety, unfortunately even if you try to be more than human but it hardly works. It hardly works. So God knows what he's doing for the last generation. He puts us through the the the great tribulation because that is God's washing machine. God's washing machine is the great tribulation.

00:35:56
 And you know, one time I made a comment that I still hold to. It's nice to it's nice to use a washing machine. You get your clothes clean and white in the washing machine. But you know the problem is when you are inside the clothes and they put them in the washing machine. If you're just going to put the clothes alone in the machine no problem. But when you are in the clothes and they put you in the washing machine when you come out you will know that you have been in great tribulation.

00:36:23
 So that's what God does. He puts us in the washing machine. While we are wearing the robes. And in the process of that scouring we we have our robes washed. And made white in the blood of the lamb. So, this is what this is the difference. Some people receive this these robes while they are dead. So, they do they don't actually pass through that great trial. But those of us who do and and and just to clarify a little bit. In my in my understanding the first robe of righteousness we get when we we become Christians

00:37:07
 is what what somebody would call justification. It's a robe of a clean slate. It's a robe that God says, "I accept you. It doesn't matter what you are. I accept you." That's the first robe. That robe covers us, right? Covers the dirt. But the second robe that Revelation is talking about is the robe where your character is clean. Now, we know one of the things that mars over character is the bad memories, okay? Any of you who don't have any bad memories Oh my goodness, you are more than human.

00:37:39
 I was in California and there was a brother two of them who got into a discussion with me. Got to be almost an argument. But you know, I was telling them I was trying to explain. They were trying to push on to say that we can be perfect and we must fight and struggle. And I I provoked them I suppose because I said "Brother, you you are telling people to fight and to struggle and so on. People have been doing it from 1844. You know anybody that it worked with?" And they said, "It doesn't matter. It's

00:38:09
 the way you have to keep doing this and doing that." I I said, "What is going to make the difference?" They said, "We just have to try harder we just have to keep fighting." And I couldn't get them to to to understand the point I'm making and I I I I there are things inside of us that we never get rid of, no matter how much you fight. And I started to talk about the memories of the wrong things you did, the habits that you formed, the the reflex actions in your body.

00:38:38
 And they said, You know what one of them said? He said, "I don't remember those things." I didn't want to antagonize him, so I didn't want to say, "Brother, you are dishonest." I said, "I remember things I did when I was 5 years old that were wrong." He said, "You remember things from 5?" I said, "I do. I have a normal memory." He said he has forgotten all of those. He doesn't remember them anymore. He can't tell. And I had to think.

00:39:03
 And and he's saying that he's forgetting all of his past deeds. He's getting rid of them. In other words, he is going through a process of becoming perfect. And you know, you you might agree with me that this brother was being dishonest. But true perfection of character involves removal of those relics of sin, even the memories. And that is one of the things. When When When it says in Leviticus that on that day the priest shall make an atonement for you to cleanse you from all your sins.

00:39:43
 I understand this to mean that those those memories are going to be blotted out. Those sinful memories are going to be deleted from our memory. That is why the people who are dead they have those memories deleted while they are sleeping. I could I could use an illustration. You know that um all of us live in the computer age. There are things on my computer hard drive. I can open the hard drive and I can delete things from memory. And some of the things that you delete you can go back and search and recall

00:40:17
 them after a while. But if you do what is called you you you can you can do a complete cleaning of those files that they never can be recalled. And a computer is the closest thing to the human mind and what God will do what I understand God will do it. You know, God says he's going to blot wipe away the tears from our eyes. God says our sins and iniquities will be remembered no more. You're not going to remember those things when you get to heaven. God will not allow you to remember some of those horrible things

00:40:48
 that you might have done. Some people were murderers, rapists, mass killers who are saved. What they are going to remember? They're going to remember the blood and the gore and the horror of what they did. No, God is going to take those things away. And these things will be taken away on the day of atonement. That is the experience that takes place during this time of the sealing. So for those who die God will take away these memories while they are dead. So they are given these white robes. And for those who are alive

00:41:21
 pass through the great tribulation, they are sealed. These memories are taken away. So they obtain these white robes while they are alive. That is the experience of the 144,000. All right, I have two two two questions or points. Let me try again with sister Talia and sister Lorena. >> Okay. Can you hear me, brother? >> Better, sister Talia. >> Thank you. You know, um so I had a two-part question. One which was um with the 144,000 having been seen before before the lamb in Revelation 7 and

00:42:11
 the multitude being the great multitude being beheld, I understood and I could be wrong. Please correct me if I am. that the ones as a multitude would be standing before the lamb or before the throne would be the 144,000. And the question before I confirm that the rest of the multitude are would be those of what I read from 1 Thessalonians 4:16 that died in Christ. >> One second, sister Talia. One second. One second. Can you give me the verses in Revelation that you are referring to? Just give me the verses.

00:42:57
 >> Yes. Revelation 7 >> Revelation 7, yes. >> Uh and I heard uh verse 4. >> All right, verse 4, right? This is the 144,000. Yes. You're right. >> Right. Speaking of the 144,000. >> Yes. >> And And And so verse 7, verse I mean chapter 7, verse 9 again talks about beholding that great multitude. >> Which no man could number. >> my question You got that? So my question would then be would the rest of the multitude with the 144,000 be of the ones who died in Christ in 1

00:43:41
 Thessalonians 4 16 through 18? >> Okay. >> Would that be the the the the ones with the all in white robes having received the the righteousness and and are standing before the throne? >> Okay. >> That's the first question. >> Sure. I understand the question. And the answer is no. The the the truth is The truth is that Revelation 7 is dealing only with those who do not die. There are no resurrected people in Revelation 7. >> Right. I I I understand that. Um but

00:44:17
 what about the rest of them in nine? Are those the ones who had No. >> Nine is also chapter seven. Nobody in chapter seven is from among the dead. Everybody is living. That's what I'm saying. >> Okay. >> That great multitude is the same 144,000 chapter verse four and verse nine is the same people, just two different descriptions. That's what I've been trying to say. >> Yes, I heard that and and I wasn't quite clear on it. But thank you for that. And so the second part is

00:44:50
 um I think Brother Tony had alluded to um this question for me. Um which is because I knew um when Michael stands up that that was the close of uh uh that was before right after rather the close of probation. I understood all that. What I was trying to ask was from with before after probation closes and everyone makes their decision would there be an opportunity before the imminent return of Christ that there would still be a ministering to people who had not who had not known Christ. I think that was what my

00:45:38
 question was supposed to be. What is there a window of opportunity or at immediately after the close of probation to the imminent return of Christ we're moving forward with the dead rising, those who the first resurrection and um all the tribulation happens. Does that make sense? I hope. >> I think I understand. And it >> Thank you. >> I I'll just I'll just lay down the sequence as I understand it. So, we're living in a window of time that I call the time of the judgment. In this

00:46:14
 time, there is to come the great tribulation. And in this time, there's to be the mark of the beast. And in this time, there's to be the final preaching of the gospel. When this gospel is being preached, many people will come to the truth from out of the churches, from out of the world, and they will come and become a part of the remnant. Some of them will die. So, there is a lot of things happening in this period. Some are dying, some are coming to the truth. When they come to the truth, they are being

00:46:49
 they are coming to a higher understanding and a relationship with Christ. It comes to a point where everybody in the world has heard the message. And everybody has made a decision. At this point, you have the end of probation. The 144,000 is sealed by this time. Who is to die is dead. Who is to be sealed has been sealed. Everybody has heard the message. The mark of the beast has done its work of persecution, and God says it is enough. And he's the There's no longer the work of the Holy Spirit. That's the

00:47:20
 end of probation. Nobody is to be saved after this. After this, all that remains is the seven last plagues, followed by the coming of Jesus. >> Thank you. In sequence, I I I can understand it now. Thank you. >> Okay, sister Talia. Great, sister Lorena. >> Okay. I I do have a question about um verse 6:11, where it mentions that Well, first of all, I need to understand who are they that are under the altar. Are those the ones who died in the great in the dark ages? >> Yes, it includes those who died in the

00:48:01
 dark ages. I I believe it it includes all the Christians from the time of the book of Acts right down until the time of the judgment. All who have All who are involved in the kingdom. >> Okay, so they they've been through some type of tribulation then. >> Yes, because God's people from the time that the church was established have always been persecuted. So, this represents that group. >> Thank you. And the second part is it says that the fellow servant that they're waiting

00:48:37
 um for God to to to take vengeance, but he said that they have to wait a little longer for their fellow servants and their brethren to be killed like they were killed. >> Mhm. >> Now, but in Luke 21:18, it says that there shall a hair of your head perish. Are those referring to the same thing? >> I I think when it says not a hair of your head shall perish, it depends on what Jesus means. Because I I think he means none of you will be lost. I don't think it means none of you will die.

00:49:14
 >> Okay. >> It's like when he says It's like when he says the gates of hell shall not prevail against the church, people think it means that the church will not not be defeated [clears throat] and trodden down, but the truth is that the gates of hell have prevailed against the church physically, but what it means is that hell cannot keep them. They're going to break out of hell. That's why the gates of hell cannot prevail. >> Okay. That's clear. We do not die. Yeah, that's that's very

00:49:44
 clear. Yeah, thank you. >> all right. Brother I'll keep. >> Brother But you answered part of my question on the 144,000 or in the great multitude if uh their memories were going to be gone. But my question would be now uh is God also going to wipe the memories of the angels? Or you know, the the ones that are watching over us and stuff. >> Well, that's a good question. I don't I don't know. I don't know because there's no nothing in the Bible to say that he will.

00:50:20
 When God says he will not remember our sins and iniquities I I guess you could ask the question is God going to take away his own memories? Or is that just a way of speaking? I don't know. Angels are not they don't have the same understanding or perspective as God. So will God take away their memories? I really can't answer, but I suppose if it is necessary he will. That's the best I can say. >> Well, you know, I would my thought is that that they would because uh I mean you you have a group of angels and

00:51:05
 you're going up to talk to them and all of a sudden they are talking about you. >> [laughter] >> You know what I'm saying? We Not that Not that we would think that because we would be uh you know uh made right, but that's just a thought now, you know, that they would be they would look at a uh individual differently. >> Yeah. >> If they didn't have those memories taken away. >> There are some things about sin that will never be taken away. I don't think we will ever forget that

00:51:38
 Adam and Eve brought sin into the world. I don't think we'll ever forget that we killed Jesus. As a matter of fact, God will leave the nail prints in his hands forever, so we can remember what we did to him. So, maybe it's not so much forgetting the sin as as coming to understand it in a different way. I'm not sure. I know that regret will be gone, but there are some kinds of knowledge that are necessary that is necessary to remain. So, I suppose some of those questions maybe we have to

00:52:18
 leave for God to give us the details of how it will be done and what it will mean. But you all just ask those hard questions, brother Keith. Sister Arena, go ahead. >> I don't have the hard questions. Um >> [laughter] >> the 144,000 um that that's a literal number then, right? >> I don't think so. >> Okay. >> I I uh last week we looked at the reasons why we don't think it is literal. Let me just see if I can quickly recollect them. First of all,

00:52:57
 if it's literal number, then it it leans in the direction that it will be literal Jews. Because if it's literal number, why wouldn't it be literal Jews? That's one. Secondly, we saw that God gives us information which can be beneficial to us. If we say it's 144,000 literally, I don't have any way of understanding how that can be useful. Suppose it's 144,000 and 1. 143,999. How does that help knowing this? And secondly, who's going to count them? How will we know if it's really 144,000

00:53:36
 or anything? The information in itself appears to be just interesting if it's literal. But if it's a symbolic number, we think about what those 144,000 symbolize. We find out that 12 is a symbol of the kingdom. As I said, 12 12 is 144. 12 * 12, it represents the perfected kingdom. Numbers in Revelation are used to to to to express character or spiritual qualities. When Jesus is said to have seven horns, it doesn't mean that he has numerical seven. It means that he has perfect or completeness.

00:54:16
 So, seven has that meaning. I'm suggesting that 12 also has that meaning. 12 means it pertains to the kingdom. So, I think the the third thing is that when you look at John hears 144,000, that's a divine statement. And when God says something, there's usually a hidden meaning. When John looks, what he sees is a great multitude. Same people. But now he's telling you that he saw all kinds of people. How many? Maybe it was more than 144,000. Maybe it was less. Maybe it was exactly 144,000.

00:54:48
 But John cannot tell because he's only telling you what he sees, a great multitude that he can't count. So, all we have is God's stated [snorts] description. 12,000 and the way it is stated, it's it it pulls us in the direction that it's a it's a it's a statement with a spiritual meaning. Brother some of the reasons is that >> Maybe if you don't forget the example also that you gave where that I think was very strong. Of the when John heard that the lion of

00:55:20
 the tribe of the lion of the tribe of Judah is is worthy to open the book. And when he looked, he saw a lamb slain. He heard one thing and he saw something else. >> Right. So, it's the same thing here. John hears and then he sees something else. But the for these reasons, uh I believe it's a it's a figurative number, not literal. >> Okay. Understood. Uh one last thing, um you did say saved, but not perfect. Um that's a curious statement because we are hearing now um the LGT

00:55:57
 um doctrine that we have to be perfect to be saved. Now, the 144,000, whoever they are and however many they are, they have to be perfect. >> They don't have to be perfect, but they will be. >> Oh, they don't, but they will be because God is doing something special with them. >> Exactly. So, if you have to be, then you are being saved in a different way than everybody else, and that is not God only has one way. So, when I say saved, but not perfect, you are saved with bad memories. You are saved with

00:56:33
 you still fighting with temptation. How many people have died who are still fighting temptation, who are still struggling? Are we going to say they are lost? They died believing in Christ, so they were not perfect in that way, but they were perfect in Christ because God they are accepted in Christ. And in the time of the judgment, God is going to blot out those bad memories that were in their heads. That was that was the main source of the problem that they were having. So, they will be perfected

00:57:01
 in a way while they are dead. So, how can this happen? Because a dead person cannot function. No, but God has a person's what we would call a record in. God preserves his spirit and and that the the state of the mind, everything is under God's control. That's why I use the analogy of a hard drive computer hard drive that you can selectively remove certain things. Our our minds are like hard drives that God is preserving. We we die with these bad memories. We are resurrected without them.

00:57:34
 Where did they go? What happened? In the time of the judgment, God deletes those bad memories and those bad those remnants of what was dragging us down. They are gone in the resurrection. Some people think it is only the body. That's a fallacy. It's not the body that is a problem. It's the mind that is the main problem. It was the spirit and the mind. But the spirit has been changed when you are born again, but the mind remains. But we would call the soul and that remains and that does not change until

00:58:04
 that blotting of what we call the blotting out of sins. So, we we we are resurrected with a new body, but also the mind is completely changed. So, that is why that is what God does in this time of the great tribulation. It happens to some of us when we are alive, those who never die. And those who die, it happens to them while they are dead. >> So, what's the purpose of sanctification then? >> Sanctification is the process of walking with God. >> Okay. >> If if if you're not walking with God,

00:58:42
 then you're walking with the devil or walking with yourself. Sanctification is a statement that means I'm walking with the Lord and he's changing me as long as we live. We will always be developing and growing, but developing to what point? The idea that we can develop to the point where we become perfect through this process is a fallacy. Perfection in the sense we're talking about is a miracle by God. It's not something that humanity can develop into. There's nothing in human experience that

00:59:15
 ever was permanent unless it was a miracle. You're born again as a miracle. Your bodies are changed by a miracle. Same thing with your mind. It's changed by a miracle. We We develop and grow and we can learn from the Bible and we can begin to we can begin to have more mature characters, but you cannot we cannot perfect it by any process that involves our work. It's a miracle of God. It has to be. >> But wouldn't it be easy for him to just do that miracle and everything would

00:59:47
 >> It would and that and he he will do it. That's what he's going to do. That's what the day of atonement is about. If >> [laughter] >> If If you look at If you look at all the feasts of Israel Passover was when Jesus took care of the problem of the guilt of sin. Pentecost was when he took care of the the the power of sin. He gave us the spirit so that sin no longer has any power over us. The day of atonement is when he takes care of the pollution of sin. Our minds

01:00:19
 are cleansed from the memories and the habit patterns. Tabernacles is when he takes us out of the presence of sin. >> Mhm. >> I use four P statements because it's easier to remember. But the the the the penalty Passover the power Pentecost the pollution the day of atonement the presence the feast of tabernacles. Everything is the work of Jesus Christ. We are only in the process while he's doing all of this. So it's [clears throat] easy for him to do, but according to God's plan

01:00:52
 everything takes place in the fullness of the time. So Passover was not in the days of David or Solomon or Daniel. It had to wait until the fullness of time. Likewise Pentecost had to wait 50 days after he was gone. Likewise the day of atonement. Likewise the feast of tabernacles. Everything in God's appointed order. There are things he's doing that are not absolutely clear to us, but it requires that he does things in time. >> Okay. That makes sense. Thank you. Yeah. >> Okay, sister Lorina.

01:01:23
 Um Sister Venice and sister Andrea, it's good to see you. Yes. Great, sister Venice. >> Okay. I think um basically answer partial. >> Okay, good. >> Um but what I wanted to >> Come back. I know you'll be anything there's compact. Brother Lenny and sister Vivier >> [laughter] >> Let me mute you. >> Okay. All right. So, as you were saying that the day of atonement is um what Jesus will do to the minds of the people who are in him will be a a miracle

01:02:06
 last transformation. But question is, will people of God aware of it? Will they know? >> That's a hard question, but I believe that one thing I I know that I'm a Christian. And I will continue to know that I'm a Christian. I don't think the time will ever come when I doubt that I'm a Christian. I don't think so. I don't see how that is possible. I've known this for 51 years. So, if I come to the time of trouble and the mark of the beast and so on, I will know that I'm a Christian

01:02:37
 and knowing that I'm a Christian, I will be aware of what work Christ is doing in me. I believe. And so, I believe we will I believe we will we will know. Yes, Satan will try to shake our faith. He tried to shake Jesus' faith that he was the son of God. So, he will try. But I think that if we are in Christ, Jesus says even the the elect would be deceived if it were possible. But it's not possible if if you if you are among the the elect, you will know the Lord's presence. You will know the

01:03:10
 Lord's work. You'll know the Lord's goodness. You will not be deceived. >> Mhm. >> And and just before Sister Talia, um you know, Sister Lorina, you mentioned LGT and maybe most of us here might not know what you're talking about. Uh some people might think might think you missed out a letter. You went LGBT. But, um Sister Lorina is referring to, I think, the last generation theology. Am I right? Okay, she's referring to what is called last generation theology, which is a teaching

01:03:43
 in um Adventism. It's It's It causes a lot of controversy because it's the idea that the last generation will be perfect. There are many Adventists who reject that doctrine. They say, "It's perfectionism." And not only Adventists, but outside of Adventism, it's a condemned teaching. The idea that the last generation will be perfect. Now, I believe in last generation theology. But, the there is a difference. I I first was introduced to last generation theology by reading some of

01:04:18
 the books of Brinsmead decades ago, many, many years ago. And you look at many of these old theologians and they debated these ideas, but last generation theology, to a great extent, it emphasizes human effort in becoming perfect. That's the problem. And and I was in that position for many years, many years. You become perfect by effort. Sister Lorina used the word sanctification. It's the idea of developing and growing until you reach a certain point where you are perfect. I was on that road. I I totally reject

01:05:02
 that pathway now, but I still believe in last generation theology because it is biblical. The perfection of the last generation is clearly taught in the book of Revelation. You can't read the 144,000. And doubt it. But what I understand far better is the supremacy and the completeness of the work of Jesus Christ. I've learned to respect and honor and look to the work of Christ and not to the work of man. I've come to understand that the Christian journey from beginning to end is a is a is a

01:05:33
 work of Jesus Christ. We're the beneficiaries. We stay close to him. Our work is to cling to Christ. Christ is the one who justifies, empowers, cleanses, perfects. Jesus work. That's what the seven feasts are about. I just wanted to to add that, sister Larina. Sister Talia. >> Um so, lower hand. So, Brother David, I'm I'm I'm very curious about who the great multitude would be because as I continue reading on uh 1 Thessalonians um 4:17, it talks about "Then we which are alive

01:06:26
 and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air and so shall we ever be with the Lord." So, where do the 100 and 144,000 fit into that paradigm as well as those who are raised to fit not to to or not to fit the great multitude. And I don't I know I'm harping on this, but I need >> I understand. I need to be settled. >> I understand, sister Talia. It's okay to harp on it. If you don't understand, please harp on it. Um the

01:07:08
 I'm going to try to find a way to simplify. What it says in 2nd Thessalonians, 1st Thessalonians, it says that we which are alive and remain. That's the 144,000. We which are alive and remain. That's the 144,000. Shall be caught up together with them in the clouds. Who are those? Those are the resurrected one. That's the ones that people would refer to as the great multitude. Now, in Revelation, let's focus on Revelation. Those who are alive and remain, you find them in Revelation. Revelation 7

01:07:45
 and Revelation 14, I saw the 144,000. That is the ones who are alive and remain. They are there in Revelation. Where is the ones who are resurrected? They are not in Revelation. They are not in Revelation 7. They are not in Revelation 14. Where are they? You find them in Revelation in Revelation 20. If you are looking for them in Revelation 7, you won't find them because Revelation 7 is dealing with the living, not those who died. The great multitude you see in Revelation 7 is not those who died. They

01:08:18
 are the 144,000. That's what I'm trying to say. The 144,000 is the same group, same same people, same identical people who are referred to as the 144,000. It's not two different groups. It's the same group. There will be a multitude from among the dead, but they are not in Revelation 7. >> Uh I I I respect your your your answer to that, but then it says the number cannot be counted, yet in all prior to that, I'm speaking for the verse 7 9, that there is 144,000, but there's within the great multitude

01:08:59
 that cannot be counted. >> Okay. >> And they're standing before the throne already. But if it's going to take up too much time, I can wait till later. Okay. >> But uh sister sister Thalia, all the questions that you're asking we covered in last week's presentation. So what I would suggest is that you could watch it. It's on YouTube. >> Okay. >> It's It's entitled the 144,000 Revelation 7A, I believe. Because >> Okay. >> it does take a while to explain some of

01:09:27
 this. But we went into it in detail last week. >> Amen. >> Okay, sister Thalia. All right. So I just wanted to finish the chapter. So we are at I don't want to come back on chapter 7 next week. So we were down to where it says that um What are these in white robes and where did they come from? It says they come out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the lamb. Now these who are wearing white robes is the ones who he saw that great

01:09:57
 multitude that sister Thalia was asking about. These are the ones who are wearing white robes. And And the elder says they are the ones who came out of the great tribulation. Not people from all ages. That the ones specifically who came out of the great tribulation. It says, "Therefore they are before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple." What does it mean that they serve him day and night in his temple? This is one of the beautiful verses that we looked at some time ago. Let me show

01:10:25
 you what it means. If you go back to Revelation 3, where it talks about the Phila- the Philadelphia church. Look at what it says of them. "Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God. And he shall go no more out." See what it says in the left panel? "They serve him day and night in his temple." It's the same Phila- Philadelphia group. The 144,000 serve God day and night in his temple. But in in in in the Philadelphia message it goes which says, "I will make him a pillar in the temple

01:10:57
 of my God. Now, this doesn't make sense until you understand because as I as I have pointed out, this looks like a boring thing. You go stand up in the temple all day and you can't go out. But when you go to Revelation 20 21, look at what it says. It says in verse 22. And I saw no temple therein. So, which temple are you going to serve in? Which temple are you going to be a pillar in? For the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it. So, this is actually an amazingly beautiful verse.

01:11:34
 So, it is saying that these people who are looking at the 144,000 will be permanently fused with God and Christ. They are pillars in the temple, the great temple that is Jesus Christ. We are permanently joined to that temple and we will never go out anymore. It's not talking about you going into a building and standing up in there and you can't go out. It's a wonderful message of relationship. Beautiful. So, we serve God day and night in his temple. Oh my goodness. These people have a special relationship

01:12:08
 with God. And it continues into eternity. That is why I would like to be in that number if God will permit it. And he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them. It says they shall hunger no more neither thirst anymore neither shall the sun light on them nor any heat. Why does it mention these things? No more hunger hunger, no more thirstiness, no more the sun to beat them nor any heat. I think this is referring to the flock. That these are conditions that come in the time of trouble. Both during the tribulation and in the

01:12:41
 trouble that follows the seven last plagues, people will experience these things. And even though God protects his people, they will pass through these conditions and so God is promising them having come out of this, you will never experience it again. For the lamb, which is in the midst of the throne, shall feed them. That is Jesus. And shall lead them on the living fountains of waters. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. And like I said, I believe this means blotting out things out of our memories

01:13:14
 that would cause tears and sorrow. The only things that will will remain are happy memories. Yes, so that brings us to the end for this evening. Now we can take any final questions or comments and um have our closing prayer. Brother Jimmy, you're the first. Go ahead. >> Yeah, okay. Go ahead. >> Okay, brother Clayton. You mentioned something um last week. Where you say but 1914, some people went up to heaven. >> No, the Jehovah's Witnesses believe that. >> Oh. Because

01:14:00
 >> Not me. Not me. >> [laughter] >> I want to know who went up to heaven in 1914. >> No, no. That's a Jehovah's Witness teaching. >> [laughter] >> Okay. >> Thank you for asking. I wouldn't want you to think that I am saying that. >> Yeah, because I I went on this. I listened listened back at again. I hear mention it. And then I listened again. I said, "But went up to heaven in 1914? Then [laughter] I realized that Jehovah Witnesses them is who really um

01:14:26
 believe that. >> I have to be careful what I say. I'll make sure I I explain myself properly next time. >> Yeah. Yeah, but anyhow, um the last part there that they explained right on target. I believe that. >> All right, brother Jimmy. Blessings. Brother Tony, go ahead. >> Yeah, you know, I was going to say what sister Talia was talking about the 144,000 and then those that died in Christ. You know, years ago I used to believe that 144,000 was a literal number because, you know,

01:15:03
 there's a little known lady that taught that in her books and she also wrote that Mrs. Hastings would rise and be with the 144,000. So, I think some people from an Adventist background believe on that. So, maybe sister Talia probably, you know, believe in that. >> No. No. >> Oh, okay. All right, then. My mistake, sister. >> But, I know we are influenced Yeah, I know we are influenced by the things that we read. I I For for many years I believed it was a it was a literal number because

01:15:43
 um the little old lady said the 144 the the living saints 144,000 in the number. >> Right. >> And they said that means it's literal, but um it could mean something else, but at the same time we are influenced by the things we we read in some ways, you know? But, having studied the chapter thoroughly, I am fully persuaded it's not a literal number. >> And even when she said about Mrs. Hastings is going to rise up and be with the 144,000. That that's not biblical. >> No, because Mrs. Hastings is not going

01:16:21
 to pass through the great >> Well, it's already been Right. Right. Right. She has already died. >> Yes. >> Right. >> There there were some there were some misunderstandings that the the people in the church believed and she repeated them because she was a member of the church, you know? So. >> Right. Right. Right. I mean, you know, we all make mistakes, you know? >> Absolutely. >> No. No. No. No. I I I was reading the Bible and I wanted clarification for

01:16:51
 what the way I was understanding it. It has nothing to do with my being a having been a Seventh-Day Adventist. That's your your perspective on it. No. No. No. No. >> All right, sister Tanya. >> I'm brother David. Just a little >> My mistake, sister. >> Um brother Tony, you are right to know um because I I um actually every now and again um fellowship with a group of people. Well, I haven't been there for a while here in Michigan who believe the same thing. They believe that sister Hastings

01:17:27
 will be right he's going to rise up and be a part of the 144,000. I hear it from people here here in Michigan. So, you are some you are correct cuz I hear it from my ears of people. And I it was pretty much confusing. I never really go much into that because I just it was it was too confused. So, I kind of like put it aside. So, when you raised that up it just kind of my mind just flashed right back um to that discussion they had here in Michigan among this group of people um in South Line, Blissfield. He was just

01:18:14
 confused. I don't know where they got it from, but anyway you're right nonetheless. You're >> Did she Did she also say that um and one one of us um Did she also say that the all people who died in the faith of the third angel's message will also rise up before? >> Well, yeah. She was talking about the special resurrection that is mentioned in Daniel. And she says all those who died in the faith of the third angel's message, which maybe, I don't know. But, um, you know, Mrs. Hastings I

01:18:47
 definitely can't agree with. You know. To be among the 144,000, the conditions are very specific in Revelation, and Mrs. Hastings does not fit, so yeah. Sister Lorena. >> I thought I was going to mention what >> Yeah, I just mentioned about the uh Daniel 12:2. Where does that fit in in all this? In all in >> Daniel >> Revelation. >> Daniel 12:2 and Revelation 1 and verse 7 are strange verses, but we accept what they say because what it says in Daniel 12:2 is that when Jesus comes again and

01:19:27
 there's a resurrection, some of the wicked will be raised as well. >> Mhm. >> Same thing Revelation 1 and verse 7 says, "Behold, he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him. Them also which pierced him." So, there is this teaching that is biblical, which is that when Jesus comes again and the the the righteous are raised, a few of the wicked will be raised at that time just in order to see Jesus coming. So, >> I thought this was a special resurrection separate from the

01:19:58
 resurrection of the righteous. >> Yes, it it is said to be a special resurrection. Um, Adventists Yeah, Adventists teach it as a special partial resurrection, where, um, a little before Jesus comes again, Oh, I see the question. I get the question, Sister Lorena. Adventists, and including Ellen White, said there's a special resurrection a little before Jesus comes again, when Adventists who have believed in the coming of Jesus will be raised, and some of those who crucified Jesus will be raised at that time as well. If

01:20:34
 I remember correctly. Yes, and I don't I I can't comment on that teaching because it's based on Daniel chapter 12 verse two and it Daniel 12 verse two does seem to speak about a partial resurrection. So I I will leave it where it is. I can't say more. But it doesn't qualify those people to be among the 144,000. That's what I would say. >> Got it. Okay. >> All right, sister Talia and then I don't know if it's Nathalee Arthur. Go ahead, sister Talia. >> Okay, so they opened up a can of worms

01:21:15
 and here it goes. Um so um with regards to um the separate resurrection, didn't Christ and and and correct me if I'm wrong again, didn't Christ say to Caiaphas the high priest that >> he would see him coming. >> Yeah, he would see him coming. So with that and the my question would then be would that relate to that theology? >> Yeah, that that that verse would be used to support that theology as well. So I suppose the real question there is going to be a resurrection of the wicked. So

01:21:48
 the question would be how long before Jesus comes again? >> Good question. >> So the Adventists say it will be some days, maybe even before Jesus comes again. While some people believe it will be just before Jesus comes, a few moments before he comes again. So that's what that argument is about. But there is to be a special resurrection. The Bible says it very clearly. But it's just how long before Jesus comes again. So Adventists would say it's it's Ellen White and the pioneers

01:22:22
 and all those who died in the third angel's message, they are going to be raised. So, that is their belief. >> So, how does it That, what you just said, correlate with I'm going back to 1 Thessalonians, everyone. 4:16. >> It's not there. It's not in in 1 Thessalonians. It doesn't deal with it at all. >> Okay. >> You have to go to Revelation 1 and verse 7, or go to Jesus' statement. >> Yes. No, I I got it. It's just that, you know, every time

01:22:56
 something else comes up, it takes me right back to, well, who are they that died in Christ before Christ came, but you explained it earlier as the ones who were who died before the 144,000, which are not literal, but figurative. Um, were sealed. >> Right, through the ages, yes. Correct, sister Nathalia. Sister Nathalia or brother Arthur, I'm not sure which. >> It's sister Nathalia. >> Okay. >> Yes, but I I really have to go back to what Tony said about the sister and what was written.

01:23:39
 And I already for myself. But that kind of confused me that day when I read it. And cuz I was listening to what you you have um teach before. No, no, no, no. Let me go back. I didn't hear you preach it before. But when I read it and um >> [clears throat] >> I got confused because I said, "Okay, if these people are going to be risen to be in 144,000, I'm like, I'm counting back from the um from Middle Ages and everything, people are in Christ. I'm like that mean the 144,000 already selected.

01:24:28
 Because >> [laughter] >> it's a lot of them and I'm like, where did he leave room for us right now? >> [gasps] >> You know, so my mind went all I was counting and I'm like this cannot be a literal number. >> Mhm. >> It couldn't because if she's going to be in it and they said it's 144 what's going to be what's going to happen because you have all those who died in Christ way before her. So that's what got me scared and then when

01:25:00
 I heard you when I heard you start speaking and I'm like Lord, thank you. >> [laughter] >> Thank you for explaining this because this number was not adding up to me. >> You know, that that number has created a lot of issues. The the Shepherd Rod group which is a very which is a very large group of breakaways from Adventism. They don't really breakaway. They stay in the church but they have different theology. Their whole purpose in life their whole purpose in existence is to

01:25:33
 get 144,000 out of the Adventist Church. They believe that when they make that number then something will happen. The angel of death will pass through and kill every Adventist. And they will be the only ones left. And they will be taken down to Israel and they'll go down there and set up the the kingdom of David and then they are going to go out and evangelize the whole world. And they are going to bring in a great multitude. That's where they think the great multitude comes in. Two different

01:26:00
 groups, they think. And then they say everybody is going to come down there and attack them in Israel. And the Lord will come to defend them. So that teaching of the 144,000 is very >> [clears throat] >> very confusing. Caused a lot of confusion in Adventism. So that's why it is important. That's why we need to The thing about it is that a lot of people study the book of Revelation and what we have been trying to do is to look at the broader context. Where does this fit in? It comes between seal number

01:26:32
 five and seal number six. Who are these people? Why does God put them here? And and why is it that chapter seven presents them like two different groups? Those are the issues that that that we if we can get them to harmonize, we begin to understand who these people are. And once we understand, it is beautiful. It is the perfected kingdom. The the whole issue from Jesus until the end of time is the kingdom of God. And the work of Jesus in that kingdom and the 144,000 is a pinnacle. Just like all the mark of the beast is a

01:27:05
 pinnacle of Satan's kingdom, the 144,000 is a crown jewel in God's exhibition to the universe. And so, it's very important to understand the group. Even if we don't happen to make it into the group, it's wonderful to be understanding and hopefully to make it as well. Yeah. Brother Brother Ray and then L. >> Yes, brother Ray. Um brother >> [laughter] >> Um this uh text Revelations um 14:13 and I'm wondering if this is a connection to what brother um where it

01:27:46
 states that uh and I know that Stephen Bohr made a sermon on this here and I showed it to you to to you years ago and you accepted it. You said it was okay. It said, "Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on." The spirit responds. So, this is Revelations 14:13. Is there any connection to this to what we're talking about with the 144,000. >> Yes, brother William. Um the the the verse in Revelation 14 says, when it talks about the mark of the beast, it says, "Blessed are the dead

01:28:26
 blessed are the dead that die in the Lord from henceforth." So, this is a time of the great tribulation. And it's the same time that the souls under the altar were told to rest until their fellow brethren should be killed. So, these are the ones that Revelation 14 is talking about under the mark of the beast. Some of them are going to be killed, but God says, "Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord from now on." So, it's the same group of people, same time period that we're looking at.

01:28:52
 >> Thank you, David. >> You're welcome, brother William. Go ahead, Ian. >> Okay. All right. So, two things before I go back to the previous subject. The first thing is that I don't see why, based on scriptural evidence, I don't see anything that suggests that there's going to be a partial resurrection before the actual resurrection. Because when you read Daniel chapter 12 and also what Jesus said, it it it there's nothing there to say it's going to happen

01:29:26
 before. I I don't know if Daniel chapter 12 is suggesting that it's going to happen before the actual resurrection of the saints. >> [clears throat] >> Just Just chapter 12 Daniel chapter 12 indicates that this resurrection is going to take place before the coming of Christ. Based on how it is written in 12, or is it is kind of a flashback flash forward thing? >> I'll tell you why. A little logic suggests that it will be a little before, at least. And I'll show you why.

01:29:57
 When Jesus comes and the trumpet sounds, the dead in Christ rise immediately and are caught up together in the air. Those people who crucified Christ, it seems to me that they they should be there a little before to anticipate his coming. You understand if they just if they just wake up and look up and see him coming, what's the point? I mean, the whole point of them seeing Jesus coming there's a reason behind it. I don't fully understand why God is going to do it, but part of the of what it would take, I suppose, is

01:30:27
 that they should anticipate his coming and recognize what is happening that he's coming back. So, it stands to reason that they will be raised a little before he comes, at least a little bit. How long? I don't know, but a little before he he he he comes again. So, because when when as far as the the the the general resurrection, there's the blast of the trumpet. Now, before the trumpet sounds, >> Yeah. >> there are people who are they recognize that he's coming, right?

01:30:57
 I don't know if it will look like a little a little star that is coming closer and closer to the earth until it bursts out into angels. I don't know what it is, but the earth is going to be aware that something is approaching us from outer space. >> with all of that telescope and technology they have today. Everything out there they can pick up. >> Right. They will recognize and all of us will be we will be talking wherever we are, we'll be chatting, we'll be anticipating

01:31:22
 great anticipation. Then, when he comes and we can make out his form, there's a blast of the trumpet and immediately the dead in Christ come out of the come out of there. They're they're raised. And we're caught up in the air or we begin to rise in the air. So, I don't think that is when the wicked those few wicked who will be raised. I don't think they'll be raised at that time. They should come come up a little bit before >> Mhm. >> and get their bearings so that when he's

01:31:47
 coming now they realize who this is and what this is. Have a little time. So, I I would agree if we say it's a little bit before, but maybe >> Yeah. Because he comes right after the statement that that time shall Michael stand up for the for the for his people. >> Yeah. >> And then after that, then go on to speak about those some um um some the wicked shall be raised shall be resurrected. So, I guess it has to come right after that before and then you Daniel go on to talk about

01:32:16
 um the rest of the vision speaks about the man and the and the river swearing that time shall be no more and there's and those time periods that come afterwards. So, I don't know how those line up with that but um I think I think that's yeah I think that there's something there in chapter Daniel that gives us the idea that it might come before the actual resurrection. Otherwise, the rest of it could just be simultaneous really, you know. >> Right. Probably just that a a little bit

01:32:42
 of of time before Jesus actually comes back. >> Right. Do you have Do you have Do you have the strength or you want to pray first? >> Um I I still have three more other hands up. So, >> Okay. >> Um four. Four. All right, four. So, that is you brother brother Ian. >> Uh-huh. >> You should let it wait, right? That's complicated with that brother and it's a different topic altogether. So, >> Yeah. >> And somebody is supposed to call me after this meeting. So, let it wait.

01:33:10
 >> All right, okay then. No problem. >> Brother Ian, sister Vinnie, sister Lorena, brother Tony. >> [clears throat] >> I'm going to make it real quick cuz I know that you're really busy today. You need your rest. Um in your next presentation I don't want you to answer now but I know it'll be another thing but it it has to do with this. Um there is a teaching in the denomination of Adventism that just prior to the Lord coming there'll be another resurrection because

01:33:39
 Satan will go out again to deceive the world. So, it it it implicates that um there's going to be a resurrection prior to Jesus coming again and they're going to build or whatever and then Satan is going to deceive all saying he is God and the ones that are coming in the clouds of glory are the great city we need to attack or they need to attack I don't want to say we because I don't want to I don't want to be there. >> That's the second coming. >> Uh are you going to include that in your

01:34:09
 next presentation? >> Um you're talking about the third coming of Jesus after the thousand years. >> Yeah. >> Yes. >> Because it is I've been studying teachers that uh Satan will go out again and deceive the world. So it implies that they will be building and living like nothing has happened and Satan will be like their God. >> It it it's actually the Bible who says it. Although the Bible does not say that they're going to be building or anything again. What the Bible says

01:34:36
 he will go out to deceive the nations that are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog, the number of whom is as the sand of the sea. So it's it's a biblical teaching, not Adventist. Maybe so Adventist interpret it, but when we come to Revelation 20, we will look into that in detail, brother. >> Thank you. >> All right, brother is the Vinnie, sister Lorina, then brother Tune. >> I'm going to be very short. I think um I never wanted to stress it too much, but

01:35:05
 it's the sister brother Ann. Bring up Oh well, you guys bring up something about those people who will be raised before Jesus come and the thought came to my mind and and I was thinking where would they be? I mean But anyway, I I don't you know, I don't really have to answer if you don't know. And will it be the fact that they will be raised a little before the after the plague, you know, because what a condition they will raise into, you know what I mean? >> Mhm. It will be it will be

01:35:36
 it will be it will be during the last plagues. Where will they be? That's why I don't think it will be a long time because they're not going to find any house, probably just a few hours before, maybe a few minutes before, certainly not a long time. So they won't need to go anywhere. They just come up on start looking around and they see everybody looking up on and then they start looking up to and then they realize long enough for them to realize that this is the Jesus that they crucified.

01:36:03
 >> Um pretty sad moment, but anyway >> Terrible. Terrible. Sister Larina, go ahead. You're muted, Sister Larina. >> So, I was reading uh Daniel 12:2 again. It says, "Not just the wicked, but also righteous people will be raised uh at that time." So >> So, so this is this is why Adventists say it will be all who died believing in the third angel's message. >> Okay. >> So, who they will be I know what Adventists say. I don't know what I say. I don't have an opinion. I

01:36:47
 know that when Jesus was raised from the dead, there were some others who were raised. Who were they? I don't know. There are some people that God saw fit to bring up at that time. And it seems to me it will be the same thing here. So, I don't know who they are. >> Maybe they Maybe they are the 24 elders. >> No, the 24 elders are there for the judgment. >> No, I'm saying I'm saying those that Jesus raised. >> Oh, at the time of Jesus. >> Yes. Good night.

01:37:14
 >> Yes. Yes, probably. Brother Tony. >> Yeah, Brother Quick. Now, we're going to get into the seventh seal next week, right? >> Yes, Brother Tony. Definitely. >> Okay, then. All right. I'll wait till next week cuz I'm trying to figure out Now, that's right before Jesus come or is that the coming? >> No, that's before Jesus comes. But, that is the seven last plagues. The seven seal is the seven plagues. >> All right. Okay. >> Yes, so next week we'll get into it and

01:37:49
 I'll explain all of that. >> All right. Thank you, man. Excellent study. I totally agree with most of the things that brother Sam said. >> Okay, brother Tony. Yeah, brother brother Sam laid it on thick. So, >> Hey, brother Sam feeling good. Like you said, it's good to see he got his energy and stuff back. He's back. >> Yeah. Yeah. All right. >> So, brother um brother David >> Yes, sister Loretta. >> Um did you go over 12 through 14 cuz um the earthquake and etc. That has not

01:38:33
 happened yet. Clearly because we're in the fifth seal. >> You mean in chapter six? No, no, that has not happened yet. >> Okay. >> The sun has not turned to darkness not the moon to blood. Jesus says immediately after the tribulation of those days the sun shall be turned to darkness, the moon to blood, stars shall fall, and you shall see the son of man coming in the clouds of heaven. Those events have not happened yet. >> Okay. Thank you. >> All right, sister. >> a question.

01:38:58
 >> Okay, quick question. >> [laughter] >> All right, go ahead. Sister Talia then brother Tony. >> Okay, um brother David um love you and all that, but why do we take some parts of and um the Bible literally which do which actually would be counteractive to what some other scriptures that we don't take literally. It It's It's It's a conundrum [clears throat] for me. But, nevertheless, I do appreciate you just, you know, speaking on things. >> It It's It's very difficult to give you

01:39:35
 the exact rule, sister Talia, but um a a lot of it has to do with the context of what we are reading, but I I'll say something about Revelation as opposed to elsewhere. You know that in the teachings of Jesus, a lot of the time he was talking in parables, a lot of the time. So, when he gives a parable, you are looking for a symbolic meaning. If you don't, you are foolish, right? Because he he he gives parables that are stories that he some of them are made up stories. You know you are to

01:40:05
 look for the meaning. So, the parables you are not expecting it to be literally fulfilled. So, when he says you tie a man hand and foot and throw him into darkness, you know it's not literal. You know, when he says that a man dies and goes to hell and he's in torment, it's not literal. So, there are certain things because of the nature of who said it and what he's talking about, you know it's symbolic. Now, the book of Revelation is a vision and it's not just a vision. It's a vision that is completely almost

01:40:35
 completely made up of symbols. So, when you go to the book of Revelation, your first idea is that this is symbolic. That's the first idea. If we come to something and say it's not symbolic, it has to be a strong reason why we say it's not symbolic because the book is a symbolic book. So, that is what governs how we look at Revelation. If somebody comes to Revelation and says, "I think this is literal." My question to you would be, "Why do you think it is literal?"

01:41:03
 And you have to give me a good reason because it's a symbolic book. Like somebody Okay, you know that most Christians say that the 144,000 are Jews. Why do they say that? They say they're Jews because they're they're said to be from the tribes of Israel. How would you argue against that? Because they say literally. Say that again. >> I said, well, based on the the their rise for their historical from historical perspective, wouldn't genealogy confirm that? Or be able to?

01:41:36
 >> Yeah, but that would be that would be completely um maybe I would say beside the point. The point is >> Okay. >> The Book of Revelation is a New Testament book and the New Testament Israel does not mean Jews. >> Yes. I agree. >> So that's the first point. So you come to the Revelation and it's it's a New Testament it's a New Testament. Somebody's unmuted and giving me a feedback. Maybe you, Viv. In the New Testament where you see Israel, think Christians,

01:42:06
 don't think Jews. That's the first principle. The second principle is is you're in the Book of Revelation. And in the Book of Revelation, Babylon doesn't mean Babylon, doesn't mean literal Babylon, Egypt doesn't mean Egypt, Jerusalem doesn't mean Jerusalem. Why would Israel mean literal Jews? So you see somebody who says it means literal Jews like the evangelicals say, they are going against the logic of the book. So those are some of the things that help us to understand

01:42:35
 when something should be literal and when it should be symbolic. >> So let me add this. Hold on, Brother Tony. Thank you and I appreciate that. Numbers are symbolic. If they are literal or they are symbols, symbol of what? So when you and and and and I get it. I get it. I I guess I'm just trying to be, you know, just to get it. I get it enough so that I won't have to ask it again. So if numbers are are are symbols exact symbols of what they are, number, then any number given would be a symbol of an amount of

01:43:13
 something literally? Or not? >> Let me give you an example of what I mean in Isaiah 400:1. >> And before you continue, I would tell you then, is New Jerusalem city literal? Is >> Well, well, I'm not going to answer that till we get to Revelation 20 because it would be it would raise up too much of a of a fuel this evening. But let me give you an example of what I mean. In In Isaiah 4:1, it says, "In that day, seven women shall take hold of one man, and they will say, 'Let us be called by your name to take

01:43:46
 away our our reproach, but we will eat our own bread and wear our own clothing.'" Do you Do you take that number Do you You understand the prophecy? Do you know the prophecy? >> Yes, I do. >> How many How many How many women do you think are there, really? >> Um that women are symbolic of >> Uh-huh. >> Women are symbolic of churches, for what I understand. I mean >> not women. That's the first thing. It's not women. So you don't think they're

01:44:13
 any women. And how many churches then? >> Well, then I will say as many as was prescribed, the seven churches of Revelation. >> So you think the seven churches of Revelation are the seven apostate women of Isaiah 4? >> No, no, no. I don't think that. That That That has nothing to do with anything. I'm just I'm just speaking to the fact of what I understand a woman represent. >> Yes, it's the seven I'm looking at. >> Okay. Uh no. Because >> So So seven does not mean seven.

01:44:47
 >> Yeah. Okay. >> Right. So that That's the point I'm making. The word The The number is used, but it doesn't mean a numerical value. It's telling you some spirit some characteristic that does not mean numerical seven. So So that's what I mean when I say numbers don't necessarily mean numbers. >> Thank you. I got it. >> Tahlia. All right. Who else was there? >> Okay. >> Yes. >> Last question. Just a question out there for you that that sister Lorraine

01:45:17
 brought up about the the um dark days and the meteorites and all that. So what significance you think that 17 Well, it's 1755, 1780, and 18 33 have with that. >> Well, let me be honest with you, brother Tony. The God that we serve is a God of magnificence, and that is a poor word. There's no way you can describe the greatness of this God. When Jesus talked about um the abomination of desolation, he was talking about first of all the destruction of Jerusalem. But, he was also he was also talking

01:45:57
 about something to happen at the end of time. The one The one prophecy has two meanings. And there there are many prophecies like this. They have first of all a partial meaning, then a greater fulfillment. Now, I'm willing to believe that God used the great earthquake of 1755, the dark day, the falling of the stars back in the 1830s. God used it as a way of helping those early believers to know that they were at the end of time. They were in the end time then. But, that is not the complete >> The final answer, right.

01:46:35
 >> Exactly. The the true and more perfect fulfillment is in the future, but that was a partial thing to benefit the believers of that time. >> Right. Okay. I got >> It's like It's like It's like Joel says that in the last days I will pour my spirit upon all flesh. Peter said it happened on the day of Pentecost, but the real meaning is at the end of time, as you know. >> Right. Exactly. Okay. All right. >> All right. Now, the only one thing that remains is if somebody

01:47:04
 can just take the closing prayer for me. I would have Let's pray. >> Thank you, brother Tony.

