00:00:02
 We should be looking at the 144,000 today. But I want to quickly review our our our examination of the other seals the seals [clears throat] because that has something to do with um what we're going to look at today. So what we saw is that um Jesus began to open the seals and there came out everybody is invited to come and see. John is standing in heaven and one of the living creatures says come and see and he sees a white horse first of all and then he begins to see all the other horses and what we said is that these

00:00:44
 horses or these horsemen represented different periods in the history of the kingdom or the history of the church. So the apostolic period going down to the next period which was a period when the church was beginning to compromise and there was a lot of it was causing a lot of friction in the world. War was breaking out. Christians were the the the they were causing a disturbance in the Roman Empire. A lot of blood was being shed. And then we saw that um it came to an age where the church was willing

00:01:21
 and when we say the church we mean the public face of the Christian church was willing to sell the truth cheap and um it came to the place where the church became an instrument of debt [clears throat] and I continue to emphasize that this means the public face of the church the the the church as it is visible [snorts] in the world not the faith hateful few who are maybe hiding up in the hills. This is the public face. This is a this is Christianity. This is Christendom. This is what it became and it

00:01:54
 [clears throat] was mostly at that time of course the Roman Catholic Church and I think the Orthodox Church came about sometime in that period as well. So [clears throat] then we saw that when the fifth seal was opened, there were the souls under the altar who were given white robes and they were told to rest for a while. And we saw that this takes us to the time of the pre-advent judgment, the judgment of the kingdom. And it is during this period there it is said that they are given white robes which means

00:02:29
 that the the truth about what these people were is exposed. It is brought out before the the watchers that sister Susan mentioned the watchers and the heavenly tribunal. The whole gathering in heaven. The truth about these people who were slaughtered as criminals is brought into the open. They are given white robes. your reputation is completely clear. This is this is the purpose of this investigation. This is one of the the consequences of this investigation. So we made a point that the church was

00:03:06
 going downhill from white to red to black to deathly pale. But when the judgment came when they the sold under the altar there began to be a change in the course. For example, what we know is that this was this was after the time of the reformation. A change was taking place now in the course of the Christian church. A lot of the truth that had been obscured during that downward trajectory were being restored. Not all of it, but a lot of it. And this is the period in the history of the church where things really turn around.

00:03:46
 So there there started to be an upward trajectory. Now after this next thing we saw was that there was a great the sixth seal was open. There was a great earthquake. Sun became black as sackloth of here. The moon as blood. The stars fell out of their places. And um every mountain and island was moved out of its place. And there were voices. The the the great men of the earth ran for the rocks and the mountains to hide themselves. And they they said the great day of God's wrath has come and who shall be able to stand.

00:04:22
 This question is not just something that God puts in for entertainment. What we should remember is that the prophecies of Revelation, they are not a picture of of things that really happened. There are things there there. It's a movie that God made up. I know you'll understand what I'm saying. God made up this movie. It's not a video video recording of things that happened. God made up a movie. And every word that is spoken in this movie, it's God who put it there. And everything that you see in this movie,

00:05:05
 it's God who put it there. So, it's designed a certain way to teach certain lessons. You cannot look at any part of revelation and say this is not important or this is just you know to fill space. God does not operate like this. This this these statements and these ideas are there because God wants to give us information relating to what is going on actually going on. So in the story, God makes the people say the great day of his wrath has come and who shall be able to stand. God makes them ask the question because

00:05:46
 God wants to answer the question. And I've said this before and I will say it again and I'll keep on saying it. In my experience as a teacher, I found that one of the best ways to get people to understand something is to ask them questions. One thing I am sorry about with this zoom meeting is that is difficult to ask questions because when I ask questions, I cannot see the hands and then when everybody start answering, it interrupts the flow of the the the the meeting. So it's awkward to to have a teaching

00:06:23
 session on the Zoom unless it's just a small group like five or 10. So it's a little stifling here, but it's a it's one of the best methods of teaching for those of you who have to teach. It's a little clue. Ask questions because sometimes people are half falling asleep or they're not concentrating. When you ask a question, they are forced to think about what is being said. So God asks the question because he wants us to think about the answer. So the question is not the important

00:07:00
 thing. The important thing is the answer. But to get you to look at the answer, he asks the question. So the question is important. So the question is the great day of his wrath has come and who shall be able to stand? And of course we know that the the day of God's wrath is the seven last plagues. We know because it says so clearly in Revelation 15. I know we're all familiar with that, but let me just remind us in verse one, it says, "I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous, seven angels having the seven

00:07:33
 last plagues, for in them is filled up. The wrath of God, these phrases, they have specific meaning. the wrath of God. Anywhere you see it, you can think of seven last plagues. That's what the wrath of God means in the book of Revelation. So I begun. So the angel says the the the people say the great day of his wrath has arrived. So when when seal number six is opened, seal number six is opened and you see these events, earthquake, sun to darkness, moon to blood, stars fall, heavens depart like a scroll, and

00:08:20
 the people cry out and say, "The great day of God's wrath has come." You know, we're talking about the seven last plagues. Seven last plagues are about to fall. who will be able to to to endure. So this is God's opportunity. This is what God is after. He asked the question because he wants to show us who will pass through that great day of God's wrath. Who will make it? Who will survive? So the question means the answer is about to follow. So this is a very important point

00:08:55
 because what we are about to see now is the ceiling of the 144,000. And the ceiling of the 144,000 the it has so many different interpretations, so many different ideas. People people have all kinds of suggestions as to who these people are, where they come from, why God shows you these people. Some people don't even look at the context. They just take these people out of the blue. But you and I we are understanding the context because first of all we understand the question. Question is important. I will

00:09:28
 come back to this question again later in the study because when you understand the question the 144,000 begins to make sense. So the first thing you can tell the 144,000 are the people who will be able to stand when during the great day of God's wrath or the seven last plagues. So specifically these are the people. So you look at revelation here go back to chapter 6 and the last thing that is asked at the bottom these men run for the rocks on the mountains and they say the great day of his wrath has

00:10:07
 come and who shall be able to stand and this is the way God is. He asks a question and immediately after asking the question of course he gives you the answer. So you go to chapter 7. I'll bring it up in the right panel. Chapter 7. Chapter 16 in the left. The great day of his wrath has come. And who shall be able to stand? There are no chapter divisions in the original Bible. No chapter divisions. John never made any chapters nor any verses. So he says immediately after these things after that question I

00:10:43
 saw four angels standing on the four corners of the corners of the earth holding the four winds of the earth that the wind should not blow on the earth nor on the sea nor on any tree. Now here's the point here. Here are the things that we are looking for. We're looking for the clues, right? What are the angels doing? They are holding the four winds. Why? They don't want the wind to blow on the earth, nor the sea, nor in any tree. What is the meaning? Let me show you the illustration. By the

00:11:18
 way, what is the meaning of the wind blowing on the earth, on the sea, or the trees? So, here's a depiction of the angels holding the winds. the there the winds are about to be released on the earth but God shows you that those winds are being held back. God is not allowing them to blow. God is protecting the earth for a a a while because something is to happen first. Now before we look at what is to happen, let me go back to the Bible and I want to look at the the significance of these winds,

00:12:07
 the place where it is used more often or most often is in the book of Jeremiah. I can recall Jeremiah chapter I think Jeremiah chapter I know 49 I think Jeremiah chapter 4 as well if I remember correctly but I'm going to go to Jeremiah chapter let me see if I can find in Jeremiah 4. All right, let me look for Let me just look it up instead of spending the time searching. Um, all right. Jeremiah 23. All right. All right. Jeremiah 23 and:e 19 says, "Behold, a whirlwind of the Lord is gone forth in fury, even a

00:13:06
 grievous whirlwind. It shall fall grievously upon the head of the wicked. The anger of the Lord shall not return until he have executed, till he have performed the thoughts of his heart. In the last days, the latter days, you shall consider it perfectly." In chapter 25 it says, "Thus said the Lord of hosts, behold, evil shall go forth from nation to nation, and a great whirlwind shall be raised up from the coast of the earth. And the slain of the Lord shall be at that day from one end of the earth even

00:13:43
 unto the other end of the earth. They shall not be lamented, neither gathered nor buried. They shall be down upon the ground." So I I I just looked at these verses because I want to illustrate the point that winds, whirlwind, the four winds, it represents great trouble arising on the earth. God describes it as going from nation to nation. And it says that they dead people will be from one end of the earth to the other end of the earth. And they won't be gathered nor buried. They shall be like dung upon

00:14:17
 the ground. So I I I just wanted to look at these statements to highlight the point that when the Bible talks about the four winds or a great whirlwind, it's talking about a time of great trouble. So in Revelation 7 here when it says that four angels are standing on the four corners of of the earth holding the winds, this is a great whirlwind that is about to be released. But God is holding it back. And why is he holding it back? He says he's holding it back. They're they're holding it back so that

00:14:56
 it does not blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree. So this has to be this has to be before the great day of God's wrath because when the great day of God's wrath comes, these winds will not be held back. They will not be restrained. But the question is asked, who shall be able to stand? And then God shows you the answer. The angels, the winds are about to be released. The trouble is about to come. God's wrath is about to be poured out. But God says, "Not yet. Not yet." So,

00:15:29
 we're looking at a time before seal number six. This is still what we are looking at here in Revelation 7. It is still seal number five. So what God does, you know, this last part here, this last part here in chapter six was talking about seal number six, but God takes us in chapter 7, God God in time. He gives us a a a flashback and he shows us something that happened earlier on so we can answer the question, who shall be able to stand? Now, let me pause a brief moment and ask if there if everybody understands this.

00:16:16
 Does it is there anybody who doesn't understand what I just said? All right. So, I'm going to emphasize it a little bit more in a little while. So, I'll leave it there for the moment. So, it says, "I saw another angel ascending from the east having the seal of the living God." This is verses 2 and three. He cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea saying do not hurt the earth nor the sea nor the trees till we have sealed the servants of God

00:16:51
 in their forage. So, so you get the picture. Okay. So, what is about to happen is that is that the day of God's wrath has come. But hold on, hold on. Before the day of God's wrath comes, the question is, who will be able to stand? So, here are some angels and they're about to let go the winds because it's the because it's the day of God's wrath. But God says, "Not quite yet. Don't hurt the earth. Don't hurt the Don't hurt the sea nor the trees. Don't release the winds.

00:17:23
 Don't allow the day of the wrath to come until God's servants have been sealed in their forage. So this is very clear. What it is saying is that the great day of God's wrath will not come until first of all God's people are prepared for that day. they are going to be sealed in their foreheads. So this is a this is a depiction of it. Um angel flying with the seal and telling the other four angels to hang on until God's servants are sealed in their forest. So one thing we can be sure of

00:18:05
 is that even though we're all expecting a great time of trouble, God will not allow it to come until something happens first. You know, I've heard people say, you know, you have heard people say that there's a river in where is it? In Ethiopia, somewhere in Africa that has turned blood red. They said there was one in China as well. And sometimes people will write and say, "Brother David, do you believe that the seven plagues have started?" You know, they talk about the way that people are

00:18:35
 manipulating the weather and they talk about catastrophes that are taking place in the way nature is operating. Remember what God says. Remember God says he will not allow the earth nor the trees nor the sea to be hurt until God's servants have been sealed. So none of us should ask that question as to whether the plagues have started because all of us should be informed enough to know that that cannot happen until God's servants are sealed. And I would I would I would expect everybody in this room,

00:19:13
 everybody in this room believes that you are among God's servants. Therefore, you expect to be sealed. If you think you are already sealed, well, that's a different matter. But I wouldn't agree because in my understanding of the sealing, when God's people are sealed, we are going to see it. We are going to see it. We are going to know that these people are different from anything we have ever seen. And up to this point, I do not see those people. You know, somebody might say, well, you can talk about yourself. You

00:19:43
 might not see, you might not be one of those, but I expect to see those people. And even though I am hoping and I'm expecting that many of us in here may be among that number, but um well, the truth is I don't live where you live, so I wouldn't know. But I think that the 144,000 are going to stand out. They're going to make an impact on the world. Not just on a Zoom meeting. The world is going to sit up and take notice of these people because you know they they are a special representative group for God. They have

00:20:21
 to be visible. So I don't think that the plagues have started yet at all. Whatever we see happening in the world, God says do not release the winds. do not release the winds until the servants of God are sealed in their forest. The the the the releasing of the winds, the plagues specifically take place after the 144,000 have been sealed. This is what it is telling us here in this prophecy. Now, I have most of the verses here. So, I'll just use the PowerPoint at this point. If if I have to, we'll go back to

00:21:00
 the Bible. the Bible text, but it says John says, "I heard the number of them which were sealed and they were sealed and 140 and 4,000 of all the tribes of the children of Israel." Now, I have highlighted a part of the verse. I've put it in red, and there's a reason. John says, "I heard the number of those who were sealed." And I want to make a note of that because I'm going to come back to it. It's an important statement and I I I'm asking us to bear it in mind. I heard the number of those

00:21:47
 who were sealed. Just bear in mind what what I said a little earlier on. Every statement in the book is designed by God. God put it in the in the movie. Let me say movie because that's so familiar to us. It's a vision, but God put it in there. God built it and put it there so we could hear it and pick up clues. All right. I heard the number of those who were sealed. So this is what is this is what actually happened. Well, something like this. John sees the world and of course he's seeing

00:22:27
 the four angels holding the winds, which I don't have depicted here, but then this angel comes from the east. An angel comes flying from the east or from the sun rising and he has a seal of the living God. and he hears a voice and the voice says, "Seal 144,000 of all the tribes of the children of Israel." And a voice echoes through the heavens. Something like that. This is what John has seen and has heard. Now he's told the voice says exactly how much are to be sealed. He says, "I heard the number

00:23:09
 of those who were sealed." It says, "From the tribe of Judah, 12,000. The tribe of Reuben, 12,000. The tribe of God, 12,000." And it goes through the list and it goes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12. And it names 12 tribes. And the the these people are to be sealed from these tribes. and um 12 tribes 12,000 from each tribe it adds up to 144,000 now I I should mention this because it is significant I don't think I I don't feel like we have perfect understanding of what I'm about to say we have some

00:23:57
 kind of suggestions I'll share with you but there are two tribes that are missing And I know that I'm saying what most of us already know, but we are we are reviewing this, going back over it, and cementing this in our minds, right? There are two tribes that are missing. One of them is is a tribe of Ephraim. You will notice that Ephraim is not on the list. And the other one is the tribe of Dan. You notice that Dan is not on the list. And if you add Ephraim and Dan, you actually end up with 14 tribes.

00:24:30
 And you know there were only 12 tribes in Israel. So how do we explain that two tribes are missing but you still get 12. What God did in Revelation here? He put in two tribes that were not there before. He put in two names that were not there. The tribe of Levi was not among the 12 tribes of Israel. Or let me put it another way. Jacob did have 12 sons. One was Levi and one was Joseph. But what I should say is that those two had no inheritance in Israel. Those two tribes were given no inheritance.

00:25:14
 Instead, what happened was that God took out Joseph and he gave Joseph two sons. He put in Joseph's two sons in place of Joseph. He put in those two sons were Ephraim and Manasse. So God took out Joseph and he put in Joseph two sons. Ephraim and Manasse. He said Joseph would get a double portion in Israel. Ephraim and Manasse. So he took out Joseph. So if he puts in Joseph two sons, you have 13 tribes. But then he took out Levi and he said Levi was not to get any inheritance because Levi was to be the class of the

00:25:50
 priests. They had no property for themselves. They were to be scattered among the other tribes and they were to behave as the priests. Now this was a reward for Levi because when when Moses went up on Mount Si and the people started worshiping the golden calf, the tribe that refused to take part was Levi. And because of this they were given the the privilege of of the priesthood. And so they became the the tribe of the priests and the Levites. And so they were scattered in Israel. And um so Levi was was gone and Joseph

00:26:33
 was gone. And instead you had Ephraim and Manasse. But in Revelation, God brings back Joseph and he takes out one of Joseph's son, Ephraim. And he brings back Levi and he takes out Dan. And why does he do this? Well, I'll tell you what I've heard suggested. I don't know if it's true, but it it kind of makes a little bit of sense. It says that I've heard it said that the two tribes in Israel that were most committed to idolatry were Ephraim and Dan. So God took them out as a symbolic

00:27:19
 representation that idolatry is the greatest curse and it will cause the greatest loss and the greatest destruction. So you know in in um in is it Hosea God says Ephraim is joined to idols. Leave him alone. It it also says that um Israel set up an idol in Dan and the people went there to worship the idol and they were drawn away from God. So that may be the reason. I mean the the the the case is not closed and I want to keep looking at it and maybe there might be something else that we might see but so far that

00:28:01
 explanation I will go with that explanation but it's just something we could probably take a note of that two of the normal tribes that were among the inheritance they were gone and two more came in and God worked out a way that it still was 12 tribes. So, it will be interesting when we get to Well, I I I I I don't know if there will literally be gates with the names of the tribes over the gates, but you know, you kind of wonder, will it be Ephrame and Dan or will it be Joseph and Levi?

00:28:41
 Because there it mentions 12 tribes, right? So, which 12 will it be? It's kind of like the 12 apostles. Which 12 is it? you know Judas is not there but will it be Matias whom the disciples chose as number 12 or will it be somebody like Paul that God clearly put his hand upon him. So it will be interesting to see how you know God God reconciles these issues. Anyway so there are the 12 tribes. Now before we go any further, let me just highlight the point I made a little earlier on. I said I would come back to

00:29:20
 this point. When does the ceiling take place? That is very important because there are some what should I call them? I would say there are some misguided ideas. There are those who believe that these 144,000 they include people like the the early Adventist pioneers. I'm sure you have heard that that idea before. There are some people in the in the Adventist church and among among Adventists offshoots who believe that people like the early Adventist pioneers and Ellen White are going to be a part

00:30:10
 of the 144,000. You know, and among other groups, the Jehovah's Witnesses believe that the 144,000 went up to heaven in 18 in 1944. 1914. They believe the 144,000 went up to heaven in 1914 and that there's one or two of them still remain on earth. And when those die, they'll be going straight up to heaven. And of course, you have many other Christians, evangelicals who believe that the 144,000 are a group of Jews. They believe that there'll be Jews from down there in Israel who um were

00:30:53
 specially chosen by God to to to carry some to to be sealed in the last days. So there are many different ideas. So I'm when I ask some of these questions, I'm asking because I want to look at some of these ideas and see if they make sense. All right. So when does the ceiling take place? Is there room for this ceiling to take in people from 1844? As a matter of fact, two of one of Adventism's very popular revelation teachers, a guy named James Raerty. I don't know if you know who is James

00:31:34
 Raferty, but I'm sure you probably know Tai Gibson. Ty Gibson and James Raferty are sidekicks. They are close friends. They work together and they teach prophecy together. And um James Rafati, I think it was James Rafati. I don't think it's Ty Gibson. Could be one of them or both of them. But they they say that the 144,000 represent everybody who will ever be saved. That's one of the strangest ideas I've ever heard, but that's what they say. represents everybody who will ever be

00:32:09
 saved from all over the ages, including who died way back to the time of Adam. I think the the the title of the little book they put out is um God is inclusive or something like that. I I don't want to mis misstate. I don't remember the name, but that is what the it says that the 144,000 represents everybody who will ever be saved because God has no favorites and God is is um is including everybody. So the 144,000 represents all who will ever be saved, which in my opinion is one of the most

00:32:44
 unbalanced interpretations I've ever I've heard. But anyway, let us look at it and see why some of these ideas cannot be true. First of all, when does the ceiling take place? Specifically, look at the sequence as you are looking at the seals. You have the white horse, first part of the church. The red horse, the next stage, the black horse, the next stage, the pale horse, the next stage, and then after the pale horse, you have the souls under the altar. So this these souls under the altar represent, as we have

00:33:21
 been saying, represent the moment of this is where we are, the time of the pre-advent judgment. We are in this period. And then it is followed by number six when he says the great day of his wrath has come and who will be able to stand. Now what I've been saying what we have been saying is that before this great day of his wrath you have to have something happening before and what it is is the ceiling of the 144,000. So during seal number five before you come to seal number six you have the ceiling of the 144,000. But

00:34:04
 here's the point. The ceiling of the 144,000 takes place in this specific slot. In this specific slot, there's no ceiling that takes place here, nor here, nor here, nor here, nor here. The ceiling takes place in this little window of time. So the 144,000 cannot be Christians from all ages. It cannot be Christians who went up to heaven in 1914. It has to be just before just before the great day of God's rot because the winds are about to be released at number six here. The winds are about to be released. The great

00:35:02
 trouble is coming and the angels are told to hold the winds. Why? Because God's servants are about to be healed to be sealed. So God restrains the trouble in order for the servants of God to be healed. Nobody, I keep saying to be healed, to be sealed in order for the servants of God to be healed. So it's it doesn't include anybody from before and nobody after. This is the little window of time. And and and as I said, we are living somewhere in that period of time. And um so so this kind of narrows down

00:35:44
 the identity of the 144,000 and it it it it rejects some of those ideas that I mentioned s ear earlier on. Some of these things just cannot be because the 144,000 is sealed within that small window of time. So I hope that that is clear to everybody. Brother Keip, go ahead. Yeah. So, what are they sealed with? >> All right, I'm going to come to that. So, I'll hold the question. All right, Sister Esther, go ahead. >> I would like for you to um explain who exactly the 144,000 are. I have a

00:36:33
 friend who believes that it is so specific that it that it lists the tribes that they come from that it has to be literal. I would really like to hear um your view on that. >> All right. I'm going to I'm going to absolutely speak about all of that. I'm going to touch on all of that. So, I'll get there before the end of this presentation today. I believe. All right. So, first of all, what is a seal? This kind of comes to brother Kip's question. Well, there are three elements to a seal. There are three

00:37:12
 Yeah. three aspects to to a seal that I would like to mention. I don't know if there might be others, but I know of three. Number one, first of all, a seal is a mark of approval. Okay. So one example that I can give you is that when um whenever a king or or an official makes a decree, he would put his seal on it. For example, when Neb um when Daras put Daniel in the lion's den, he put his seal on it so that nobody could move the stone. when when they got um dire to make the decree that um

00:37:51
 you know nobody in fact let me go there I am speaking but I think it's helpful if we read it together so if you go to the book of Daniel and you look at what it says in Daniel chapter 6 is it yes if you look at how they tricked Daras and um It says they said to the king Daras, those tricksters, now, oh king, establish the decree and sign the writing that it be not changed according to the law of the meat and the Persians which alter not. Wherefore King Daras sign the writing and the decree.

00:38:36
 Now he doesn't actually use the word sealed here, but um this is like a seal. The king makes a decree and I think in the book of Esther, let me see. I think it's in the book of Esther, it talks about the king signing something and sealing it. Let me find that one. And let me find the word seal in the book of Esther because I just want to highlight the point that I'm making. Esther. All right. Then were the kings, it's verse 12 of chapter 3. Then were the king's scribes called on the 13th day of the first

00:39:26
 month. And it was written according to all that Hmon had commanded, unto the king's lieutenants, and to the governors that were over every province, and to the rulers of every people of every pro province, according to the writing thereof, and to every people after their language in the name of King Ahazerus was it written, and it was sealed with the king's ring. When something was sealed by the king, it meant that nobody could reverse it. If you look at chapter 8 and verse 8, it says, "Write you also

00:39:56
 for the Jews as it liketh you or as it suits you in the king's name and seal it with the king's ring." This is what he's telling Esther to to let Mordeia do. For the writing which is written in the king's name and sealed with the king's ring, may no man reverse. Once it is sealed with the king's ring, nobody can reverse it. Nobody can change it. That's the meaning of uh the first meaning of a seal. It's a mark of approval. It's a mark that something cannot be changed.

00:40:23
 It's a guarantee of acceptance. When when the king seals something, it means that it is accepted by the king. It means that it's a guarantee. And we can find an example of this, for example, in um in Ephesians. I'm sorry I don't have these at my fingertips but they are there. Ephesians 1 and verse 13 go um we are told that in whom you also trusted after that you heard the word of God the gospel of your salvation in whom also after that you believed you were sealed with that Holy

00:41:04
 Spirit of promise. The sealing with the Holy Spirit is God's sealing and it means that it's God's guarantee that you're accepted. You are given something from God that is called a seal. And that seal means it's a guarantee that God accepts you. It's like a down payment, you know. It's like a uh uh Yeah. Down payment. What other word would I use? It's it's it's it's guaranteeing >> a deposit. Yes, that's a good word. That's a good word. Um yeah, a deposit.

00:41:43
 All right. And then the third one is that it's an indication of completeness. So like for example you use the word seal when you have written a letter and you you paste it up and um you call it a seal. So you have these different ideas behind a seal. So when it says that these people are sealed, it means that they are approved, they are accepted and I think that the the the the most significant meaning here is it's an indication of completeness. >> Right. David. >> Yes. Yes. Go ahead.

00:42:23
 >> The third meaning came from the first one because they used to seal the envelope by putting wax on it and press the seal into it. So when you talk about um sealing an envelope, that is where it came from from the meaning the first first meaning >> yes thank you um so yeah so there's some overlapping of these meanings but the reason why I'm showing three different three different implications is because I believe that when the Bible talks about the seal there are some people who have a

00:42:55
 tendency to think that it only means one thing whereas I believe that in the context of revelation it does not mean the same thing that it means somewhere else in the Bible. For example, the verse that we just read in Ephesians where it talks about being sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise. This is where many people go and they say the seal of God is the Holy Spirit. I believe that in the book of Revelation that is not correct. And I'm going to explain why. I think that's a mis mis I think that's a mistake. I think that's

00:43:34
 a mistake. And um I'm going to I'm going to show you why. So when we say that the the seal of God is the Holy Spirit, some people say it with the greatest confidence and it's true, but is the seal of God in the context of us being saved. It's not the seal of God in the context of the book of Revelation. Because the book of Revelation is not about who will be saved. And I'll show you I'll show you that very clearly. Well, I've come to the point. Is it the seal of the Holy Spirit?

00:44:04
 The seal, as we said, we just looked at this verse. It means down payment, guarantee. Brother Warren says deposit. I agree. This is what the seal of God implies in the context of us being saved. But in the book of Revelation, it's a different seal. And let me explain why. First of all, every single Christian is already sealed with the Holy Spirit. When I say every single Christian, I mean every genuine Christian, everybody who is born again. I don't mean everybody who goes by the name, but every Christian who is born

00:44:42
 again is already sealed with the Holy Spirit. In Revelation, it says these people are sealed from where? From the tribes of Israel. If they are sealed from the tribes of Israel, it means that they are already God's people. They're already God's people. So, you can't be God's people if you're not born again. Out of those who are born again, out of those who are already Christians, God is going to seal another group of people. Now the question that sister Esther asked the question that came from her

00:45:22
 friend is how can we believe that it is not literal Jews because it says specifically that they come from the 12 tribes of Israel. But I will say this. I'm just going to say one thing at first. If these are literal Jews, you you're going to have to say that the tribe of Ephraim and the tribe of Dan will not be included in those Israelites. If if people are if we are to take it literally, it would mean that the tribe of Ephraim and the tribe of Dan, everybody from those tribes will be excluded.

00:46:04
 That does not make reasonable sense. That's point number one. Point number two is that when it comes to the book of revelation, the last thing anybody should should the last approach anybody should take is to think of the prophecy as being literal. That's the last approach. Why? Because it is absolutely clear that everything in revelation is primarily first of all symbolic. First of all, the the the very nature of the book tells you that God is designing it in such a way that it is confusing. It's

00:46:43
 hard to understand. If somebody comes to the book of Revelation and begins to think of it as literally, your approach is wrong. With the rest of the Bible, what the Bible says, you should you should first think of it in a literal sense. And then if there's a secondary or a symbolic meaning, all right, you can find that maybe. But in Revelation, it's the exact opposite. Everything in Revelation, the vast majority is very obviously symbolic. Babylon is not literal. Why would Israel be literal? Egypt is not

00:47:13
 literal. Why would Israel be literal? Jerusalem is not literal. Why would Israel be literal? So the the the the very nature of revelation is the first reason why we think it's not literal Israel. Secondly, there's a principle in understanding Revelation which is that Revelation is written in the language of the Old Testament. I don't know if if nobody ever thought about that once you you hear me say it, it jumps out at you. the language of the Old Testament, the the the battle of Armageddon, the river Euphrates, the

00:47:59
 drying up of the river Euphrates. These stories are all from the Old Testament. The images are from the Old Testament. One of the ways we approach Revelation is to take these Old Testament images and we translate them into New Testament concepts. That's a secret to understanding Revelation. You look at the Old Testament image and then you think what does this mean in the New Testament? So you see a lamb slain before the throne of God. How do you know it is Jesus? Because you look at the Old Testament image and you

00:48:34
 translate it into the New Testament meaning. That's how we approach Revelation. So that those are two of the reasons why I would say that absolutely I would I would completely disagree with the idea that the 144,000 is literal Jews. And one third reason is that Revelation is about the perfecting of the kingdom. It's not just Revelation 7, but the entire structure and the story tells you it's about the development and the perfecting of the kingdom. God does not end the story with a with with a a group

00:49:14
 of Jews. God ends the story with a group of Christians because the the idea that Jews are so so special to God above other people that they become the centerpiece in the last days is contrary to the understanding that God is not prejudiced. God is not biased. There's one other reason, one other strong reason, and I'm going to complete as we proceed, but those are some of the the preliminary reasons I would give why I would would not agree with that idea. Now, the last thing about the seal

00:50:00
 or the second to last thing is that the seal is in the context of the end time crisis. So it's not the seal of the Holy Spirit because the seal of the Holy Spirit is the seal of God in all ages from the days of the apostles. Well, at least from the time of the apostles. Every born again Christian has been already sealed from the time of the apostles. And um out of these born again people, you have another group that is sealed. So this is has to be another kind of seal. The sealed ones are sealed again

00:50:38
 in another way. And this seal is specifically a seal in the context of the crisis at the end. And this seal is a contrast to the mark of the beast. So these are specific characteristics of this seal that make me very strongly convinced. This is not talking about the seal of the Holy Spirit. It's another kind of seal. It's another it's another it has another identity. This seal is identified differently than the seal of the spirit. All right. So, yes, brother Ke, go ahead. Okay. So, uh do you think this is going

00:51:25
 to be a a physical seal uh or like a mark? Because like you know Kane had a I guess he had a physical mark. uh so everybody can see. Do you think that it could be the mark of the beast could be something that everybody can see, but they're not going to know that they're marked with the beast that they may be deceived and think they're marked as a Christian? Well, well, let me say w without going in into too much depth this evening because we don't have the time to go in in depth. But let me say that I believe

00:52:01
 that the seal of God and the mark of the beast will be seen not as physical marks but as behaviors behaviors. So a physical mark means that you are tattooed, you are stumped, something like that. But it's still visible. The seal is visible and the mark is visible. And both of them are visible by by behavior, by the way people behave. It has to be seen otherwise it doesn't make sense because God is is allowing his people to stand out in stark contrast to those who have the mark of the beast. And the

00:52:33
 difference will be seen in the behavior of both groups. It's not like somebody's going to go around and stamp those with the mark and stamp those who have the seal of God. The the seal of God is described as being the name of God in the forehead. So that tells you the name of God is not is not a physical mark. It's a it's a spiritual characteristic. It means that we have the same kind of character as God. The same kind of nature as God. So we have this nature, this character and of course it

00:53:04
 will display itself in our behavior. So it will be visible. But because it is a behavior, it's visible in behavior, there will be room for people to reject it. if they are not initiated or if they don't want to accept what they are seeing. You see God's go God God's ways are amazing. When John the Baptist came and Jesus said it was Elijah. Those who didn't want to believe said no it wasn't Elijah. It was John. It wasn't Elijah. Jesus said it is Elijah. Jesus is looking at things in a

00:53:36
 spiritual way. And you find over and over this is how God operates. Those who want to see or who are sensitive, they see. But there is enough room that those who don't want to see don't see. When the when the seal of God comes, people are going to be looking for a physical mark. And the same with the mark of the beast. And so they'll say, "This cannot be the mark or this cannot be the seal." While those who are listening to the Lord, they know it's the seal even though there's no mark.

00:54:06
 But but it is manifested in a certain behavior. And um just to be very quick, I believe the seal of God is God's character of love. I mean we have we have discussed this in this room before. I believe the seal of God is the love of God displayed in his people. The quality of Philadelphia brotherly love. Paul says above everything you are to put on love which is the bond of perfectness. When Paul talks about love, he says when that which is perfect has come, that which is partial will be done away. So

00:54:45
 Jesus says this is how all men will know that you are my disciples. When you have love one for another. So I believe that the love of God, brotherly love is going to be so strikingly manifested among these people that the world will see and the world must notice that these are God's people if you are honest. But because because they're going to be so because there's going to be no physical mark and they don't want to accept it. They won't accept that this is the seal of God.

00:55:19
 It will be obvious. So the way I will love Kip and Aon, Brother Warren, Sister Helena, the way we love one another will be remarkable to the point that the world will take notice of it. And I'll just preempt myself by saying the mark of the beast will be the opposite. It will be love of self manifested in a certain kind of behavior. Striking. So that's just what I will say on that for the for the moment because if we get into that we're going to be here for another two hours. But um I I saw a hand brother Ian's hand

00:55:57
 was up then he took it down. All right. Let me go to brother Jimmy. >> Yes. Um brother Clayton it say um [clears throat] they are sealed in their foreheads. Is that true? >> Yes. And then it say 144,000 and mount Zion with the lamb having the father's name written in their forehead. >> Yes. Yes. It seem like these group know exactly who the true and living God is because name represent character and they have the character of God within them and they understand by the fun that

00:56:40
 God who is the true and living God and who is who God have a literal son as as what we believe at this time. I I think so, brother Jimmy. But I think in this case the greater emphasis is the character more than the identity. I agree that the identity is critical. But I think when it comes to the seal of God, when you look at all the biblical evidence, what we are looking at is God's love. God's love, I agree that the fact that God gave his son that that it contributes to understanding the love. But the seal of

00:57:16
 God is people who display that love of God. I think that is what the seal is. >> Yeah. You have the character of God. Yes. Yes. [clears throat] >> Yes. D. Go ahead, >> brother David. You cannot separate um it's hard to separate character and identity because character is a representation of the true identity. >> I I think I think we can make the distinction. Yeah, there's a distinction but you cannot separate them in terms of you cannot disconnect one from the other.

00:57:48
 >> Well, I think I think the question is can you can you have the love of God in you without fully understanding the identity of God? That's the question. And I think it is possible because it says that the love of God is is is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given to us. So I know that there are Christians who have experienced that love of God and who have even displayed that love of God who never understood the identity of God as well as we do. So that's why I'm making

00:58:24
 that distinction. >> I wasn't talking about God's identity though. I was talking about the the saints identity. >> Okay. I was talking about God's identity. >> Oh, okay. All right. Sorry. >> Yes. Um, Dario and then brother K. >> Yeah. I just wanted to say that it it definitely would have to be a special outpouring of the spirit of God because this the society that is [clears throat] the society today is labeling love as something completely different. And I speak specifically of a

00:59:03
 certain um you know a certain set of people like the LGBTQ they are labeling love labeling love as a certain thing and if you should say that that's not our definition of love then you know you you get criticized and you get ostracized. So it would definitely have to be that special time when the Lord pours out his spirit and it is seen you know true love is seen you know as opposed to what people regard regards to be love today and when I say people I don't mean God's people you know I mean uh secular people so I

00:59:44
 just wanted to um say that >> sure when we when we get further into uh the book we definitely will look more closely at that but I I have asked myself I mean all of you know maybe I should just talk a little bit face to face for a moment. All of you know that um one of the questions that we have probably battered with is a question of what is the seal of God and what is the mark of the beast? And you know that um the the average Adventist the vast majority they say that this the seal of God is the Sabbath. And um I

01:00:21
 don't even know what other Christians non-Aventists believe but I know Adventists say the seal of God is the Sabbath and they they say that the whole conflict revolves around Sabbath and Sunday the day that you worship. Now I have asked this question over and over and over because one of the things we don't want to do is to be conceited and to think that we know everything and I mean me and I don't want to be misguided and I don't want to be wrong. I I I have become very much persuaded that the love of God

01:00:55
 is what the seal of God is about. I'm strongly persuaded when you look at all the things that the Bible says about the love of God. It it jumps out at you. It it is it is described in the Bible as the greatest quality of all. God is love. 1 John 4 and verse verse 8. God is love. now abideth faith, hope, love. These three, but the greatest of these is love. The love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit that is given to us. Above all these things, have fervent love one toward another. By this

01:01:35
 shall all men know you are my disciples when you have love one for another. Above all these things, put on love, which is the bond of perfectness. The Bible describes and holds up love as the greatest quality. The 144,000 churches, Philadelphia, Philadelphia means brotherly love. I'm seeing it more and more clearly that the the the quality and when this morning when I try to talk about the purpose of our existence, God created us for relationship. Do you know what makes relationships work? The greatest quality that makes

01:02:12
 relationships work is is is brotherly love. Is selfless love. God created us to love one another. If you ask why was I created to go out there and enjoy the trees and the breeze and the flowers. God created a universe for relationships. I I am my mind is kind of half blown when I think about it. I was created to love you. I was created for that purpose. And if I'm not living for this purpose, I'm not living for God's purpose and I'm missing the point. I was made to love you in a brotherly way. So

01:02:40
 the more I think about it, the more I see, the more I believe that the seal of God is brotherly love. That's the name of the Philadelphia church. And the Philadelphia church is the 144,000. Now, if this is true, superficially, you would say then the mark of the beast is hate, right? That's where wrong definitions can mess you up. Because the the the the the converse or the opposite of brotherly love is not hate. The converse of brotherly love is self love is selfcentered love. That is the

01:03:18
 opposite of brotherly love. The problem with sinners is not hating other people. The problem with sinners is loving themselves. That was Lucifer's problem in heaven. He loved himself. You think he started out hating people? Love is only the the the the the result that appears when you love yourself supremely. It it comes out like hate. But there are people who don't hate anybody but they are the center of their world. Or they don't hate everybody but they are the center of their world.

01:03:48
 And that is why when we come to the mark of the beast, I will try to demonstrate that the mark of the beast has to do with self centered love. Something that that puts this on display. Anyway, I don't want to dwell too much on that at the moment because that's not where we are this evening and I'm already carried away. I don't know if I'm going to be able to finish the 144,000 this evening, but anyway, let's see what happens. So, is this a literal number? Now, this also connects to the question Sister Esther

01:04:18
 asked. If it's a literal group of Jews, then it's a literal number. All right. So here are the points in the book of revelation. Numbers indicate characteristics. Now I don't know if this is [clears throat] a well understood point but what do I mean? When you see the number seven for example Jesus is represented as having seven eyes. Seven eyes does not mean seven numerical seven. It means a characteristic and that characteristic is completeness. Same thing. He has seven horns. So the

01:04:58
 number seven is pointing to characteristics, not to a numerical value. The number 12 in many cases is not speaking of a numerical value. It is speaking of the kingdom. It is pointing to the kingdom, not to a numerical value. I can give you examples. For example, well, this number 144,000, I absolutely do not believe that it is referring to a specific number of people. That kind of addresses the question that this person asked, this lady asked Sister Esther. I don't think the 144,000 is literal

01:05:36
 144,000. I'll give my reasons in a little while. There was a time in my life when I believed and I would argue with people and I would count you an apostate if you said what I just said. If you said it's not a literal number, I would say you are in apostasy. But today, I'm very convinced it's not a literal number. There are many there are several reasons why I don't think it's a literal number. But but the point is, the number 12 and multiples of 12, it means that Jesus is pointing you to the kingdom. The

01:06:07
 kingdom number is 12. 12 apostles, 12 tribes. Jesus always keeps it to 12. There should be 14 like I pointed out but he made it 12. The apostles there was 11 and he made it up back to 12. He's always keeping that number because the number signifies something. So the 144,000 12 * 12 144 is a multiple of 12. It's 12 12. It's a square of 12. And what I believe God is showing us is that this is the perfected kingdom. 12. The kingdom 1212 is the kingdom perfected. That's what the 144,000 is.

01:06:47
 And it's the only way that the number makes any sense. I'm going to point that out in a minute because a literal number, a literal number has no value. It's of little value. I would say it has no value. For example, for example, I go to a concert and um I come back and my wife says to me, "How many people were there?" I said, "There was 963." That number it is of little value. Well, it it may be of value because she knows there were a lot of people there. 963 964 965.

01:07:30
 What's the difference to know that it's a literal number? If somebody tells me that in the last days there's going to be 144,000 exactly making up the number, how does that help me in any way to become a better person to understand the situation better? What help is it to me to know that there's 144,000 instead of 14 139,999? How does it make a difference? David, it means that you have to work harder to get into that l. Yeah, that's that's that's that's one of the things. But um then if it if it's

01:08:09
 143,000, same difference, right? So what I'm saying is that God giving us a literal number is not beneficial to us. Apart from as Ian says, if you think it makes you have to work harder because it's such a small number maybe. But anyway, but the the the the numbers indicate spiritual characteristics, spiritual qualities. And if the 144,000 is viewed in that way, then we can see it makes sense because 1212 means completeness or perfection. And it has to do with the kingdom. The 12ness has to do with the

01:08:50
 kingdom. God's kingdom number. So that makes sense and I can see that God is showing us that this is a perfected kingdom. Now I understand the people better and now I understand what God is saying about them and maybe I can understand my place in that situation. The third point, if it is a literal number, then it means that it is a predestinated group. And my my instinct for fair play pulls back from that idea. If if God says it's going to be 144,000 and no more and no less, then I know

01:09:30
 that that is a group that God has decided. And it means that it's like predestination. There's no point in you having any desire to be in that group. It's something that God put down in stone. And when it reaches 144,000, not even one more can become a part of the number. And when it reaches 139,999, God cannot stop till he gets that one additional one. It's a predestinated group. And so that eliminates our interest or our involvement altogether because there's nothing at all that we can do to be

01:10:06
 involved. It is something that God pre-ordains and predestinates. Point number four, a literal number would suggest that there are literal Jews. So if there are literal Jew Jews, then it has to be a literal number. And if it's a literal number, it has to be a it has to be literal Jews. those two things would go together. I would say now I'm going to show one more reason that is the greatest reason in my opinion why it's not a literal group but I we have looked at these these points before now I know

01:10:41
 that my time is passed I'm just going to hope I can take 10 more minutes and make this point now who are these people not a group of Jews not Christians from all ages not all who will ever be saved I believe that they are the perfected kingdom we already said all of this Now what we can see is that all of this is about the kingdom. The kingdom has been from a white horse to a red horse to a black horse to a pale horse. It has been going downhill. The kingdom of Jesus has been failing. It looks like and we pointed out that

01:11:15
 the reason for this is because human beings were allowed to take control of the church. But when it came to the time of the judgment, a change took place and now a description is taking place where it's no longer going down. It's kind of on a balance. The souls under the altar are given white robes. And then it goes up to the one 44,000 who have the the seal of God in their forehead. A group of people who have been perfected. And the the other thing is in response to Sister Esther's

01:11:45
 question, these seals are are consistent. They're a part of a body or of a group. They are not in isolation. All of these are dealing with the same subject. The souls under the altar are dealing with the same subject. The 144,000 is dealing with the same subject. It's not different. It's not they're not disconnected. So you can't have the 144,000 talking about Jews while the rest of it is talking about the gentile church. That does not make a lot of sense either. God is consistent. So,

01:12:16
 it's the kingdom going downhill and then the the the you come to the time of the judgment and the kingdom turns and goes right up to the pinnacle. The kingdom becomes perfected. God's kingdom triumphs at the end and God's purposes are fulfilled. And this is what the 144,000 is about. So, do I have enough time to do the last thing? I should do it. So the next thing that happens, John says he saw a great multitude which no man could number from all nations and kindreds and people and tongues and they are standing before the

01:12:47
 throne there. They have white robes and palms in their hands. This is what John sees. Something like this. All right. This is these people are not dressed in white robes. This is just a random crowd that I picked up somewhere. But the reason why I put this there is because I want to point out something. When John looks, he kind of sees something like this. And I'm going to come back to this. All right. Now, there are some clues that give us the identity of both groups. When I say both groups,

01:13:18
 I mean this great crowd and the 144,000. He mentions there are two groups that are mentioned. One is the 144,000 and then there is this great crowd. Now, we're going to have some clues, and I'm going to ask you to pay attention to these clues because they help us to harmonize what happens in this chapter. First clue, they are sealed and they are sealed while the winds are being held. It has to be a group at the end of time. Second. All right. Second clue. These two groups are from two places.

01:14:03
 They are from Israel and then the other group is from all nations. This is what it appears superficially. And again we could look at how that is represented. One for the the second group is from all nations. The first group is from Israel. So it says the third clue is that John heard about the first group while he saw the second group. That's one of the most important clues of all. And I'll show you why that is important. When you go back to Revelation 5, you see something happening there.

01:14:46
 Let me read this quickly. John says, "One of the elders said unto him, behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah has prevailed to open the book unto loose the seals." And when John looked, he saw in the midst of the elders, there stood a lamb as if it had been slain. Now, there are two things that happened. John heard, h for heard, I don't have the time to write this out. John heard about the lion. John heard about the lion, but he saw a lamb. Two different bits of information. One thing he heard

01:15:32
 and the other thing he saw. Are these two different things? The the description is different, but it's the same thing. This lion is Jesus and this lamb is Jesus. When the elder speaks, John hears a voice and the voice talks about a lion. Then John turns and looks. He says, "I beheld and when he looks, what he sees is a lamb." He does not see a lion. His eyes tell him one thing and his ears tell him something else. The elder tell him tells him about a lion. His ears hear about a lion and his eyes see a lamb. Two

01:16:08
 different descriptions completely. But the same person. Why does God do this? Because God is giving him two different perspectives of the same person. Same person but two different representations of the same person. So this is the clue that we we need to decipher who are the 144,000. So he hears about a lion. He didn't see a lion. If you ask John what did the lion look like? He can't tell you because he never saw a lion. This is what he saw. He can tell you what the lion looked like, but the voice told him the lamb

01:16:49
 looked like, but the voice told him about a lion. So to to make this clear, we go back to Revelation 7. Now I look at this picture and I'm going to ask the p the question. I don't want anybody to answer. Some of us are familiar with this, but some of us may be here who are looking at this for the first time. And I I I would ask you the question, where do you think these children came from? And if you said one may be from Ethiopia, I would agree. If you say one may be from the United States, I would

01:17:22
 agree. If you say one may be from Africa, I would agree. If you say one may be from the Caribbean, if you say China or Japan, you would say they're from many different nations. And why would you say this? Because you're looking at them. You're looking at their skin color. You're looking at the color of their eyes. You're looking at the texture of their hair. You're looking at the way they dress maybe and you're saying they are from different places, different countries.

01:17:47
 This is what John is looking at and he says, "I saw people from every nation, kindred, tongue, and people." How did he know? He's telling you what he saw. He saw their hair, >> their colors, the texture of their skin, and he knows that they're from all nations, and they are standing before the throne >> in white robes. And he tells you what he sees. This is not what he hears. This is what he sees. Now, let me tell you something about these children and you'll get a different perspective.

01:18:16
 I'm going to tell you that these children are all Christians. Now, I don't know if this is a fact, but I'm going to put that into the story. I'm going to tell you that these children are all Christians. And when I say this, I'm going to say something. These children are all from Israel. Are you going to agree with me or are you going to disagree? My voice says they are Israelites. Your eyes say they are from different nations. Which description is correct? The truth is both descriptions are

01:18:55
 correct because if they are Christians, they are Israelites. They are from the the nation of Israel. They are from the tribes of Israel. if they are Christians. Now, if I give you a spiritual description, I'll say they are Israelites. But if you if you see a physical description, you you'll say they're from different nations. This is exactly what is happening in in Revelation 7. The voice tells him tribes of Israel, 12 tribes, so many from each tribe. It's a spiritual description.

01:19:24
 You're supposed to look at that and try to figure out what it means. So John is curious. So he turns around and when he turns around, he sees a group of people. Who are these people? They are the people he just heard about. He just heard about them. Now he sees them. But when he sees them, he doesn't see Israelites. He doesn't see people from the tribes of Israel. He sees people from all nations. So he tells you what he sees. Now, why does he say it's a great multitude that no man can number?

01:20:00
 Well, he's saying this because he's using a human description. You know, there was a there's a phrase that they use in Jamaica. It became popular some years ago when there's a large crowd of people and you don't know how many you say people like sand. I saw people like sand. One one time they perverted it a little and say people like dirt. You know, they even had some songs about it. Um anyway, but but the idea was it became a phrase, a popular phrase. There were people like son,

01:20:32
 not literally, but it's it's a human expression. And we also would say innumerable an innumerable group of people. If you saw a 100,000, you would say countless. If you went into a stadium and saw 100,000 people, if you went and you saw 120,000, if you saw 144,000, if you saw 180,000, you would say a great multitude. that boy there are countless. That's what John is saying when he says a great multitude that no man can number. John is using a human expression because he's telling

01:21:06
 you what his eyes see. It's not that you can't count them. If you take the time and sit down one day you'll be able to count everybody who is saved. It might take you a few years but you can do it. So there's no such number as a a a group of people saved who cannot be counted. John is using a human expression. He sees a large crowd of people and he's saying, "My goodness, people like sand, a multitude that cannot be counted." That is how he describes them. But God already told you their spiritual

01:21:37
 characteristics. It's 144,000 from the 12 tribes of Israel. Now, this for me is the strongest indicator that these are not Jews. These are not Jews because when John sees them, he describes them as as coming from all nations. These are definitely not Jews. They are only spiritual Jews, physically. This 144,000 is people from all nations. Now, I still have a bit more to say about them, but I'm going to stop for this evening. I have a few more things that I want to say. I wanted to get through that main

01:22:15
 challenge of getting over why we say it's the same group. But next week, I'm going to kind of finish up, do a little bit of a review to make sure that everybody gets the points very clear. And then we will we will wrap up the chapter next week and maybe start on the next chapter.

